Mackenzie, M-A-C, capital K, E-N-Z-I-E. Last name is Price, P-R-I-C-E, and I'm the co-founder of Alpha School. Mackenzie, let's hop right into it. We just talked about this off camera, but I wanna know, how did the school come about? You actually had a really good story as to why you even created it. So let's talk about the beginnings of where you started with 16 students. Let's talk about that. Absolutely, so I've always been really interested in education. I was a psychology major in college and did some focus around child psychology and found that interesting, but there's nothing that gets you into education like becoming a mother. I had two wonderful daughters, and my husband and I were both products of the traditional public school system. And I think we're very much considered success stories in terms of how we did and excelled and went to great colleges. And so we put our girls in the local public school. But pretty quickly, I found myself just getting a little bit frustrated with the lack of ability for that behemoth program to be able to provide personalized learning. And I really felt for the teachers. I think teachers are amazing and they are the most underrated job in the world because you've got 20 plus kids in a class that you're supposed to try to be providing a personalized experience for, and it's impossible. And so I just found that frustrating with my girls. And about halfway through second grade, my daughter and I were having a conversation and she said, I don't want to go to school tomorrow. And I looked at her and I'm like, wait, no, you love school because she was totally that kind of kid who was like a teacher's pet and like, I like learning and I like school. And she looked at me and she goes, school is so boring. And I just had this moment of like, oh my gosh, it's taken two and a half years for this system to take a kid who's tailor made to want to learn and love school and wipe away that passion. And I was like, I can't do this. And I went, I had a great relationship with our principal at the school. She's a wonderful, wonderful educator and administrator. And she said, I totally understand what you're doing, but this is like trying to steer the Titanic. It's just too hard. So at that point, I knew I needed to do something else. So the next fall, we started with 16 kids. We were basically working out of a garage house from one of our guides who, those are like our teachers, but they're guides. And now we've got close to about 250 kids across three campuses. So it's grown a lot in that time. Yeah, and our commitments are that kids will love school. And we measure that with surveys where we ask the kids, would you rather go to school or go on vacation? And 85% of our kids from I think last session said they would rather go to school, which is great. And then we commit to learning twice as fast, which we measure that learning using standardized testing and then that they're going to learn life skills. So that's our commitments and it's worked well. I want to move right into the use of AI. This was obviously the big thing and everybody was like, what? How does this work? So it set us up on a structure. It's two hours and unfortunately the six of life skills and everything like that. Didn't you create the program for the AI? Tell me a little bit about that. So there's a combination. Online apps are something that have been around for a long time. That's been a very normal part of ed tech. And so what we base our education on, our learning, to our learning is based on using online apps in the core skills. Those apps and what the kids are learning is based on common core, K through eight or K through 12, depending on where we're looking at, standards. So the apps are teaching the same information that a textbook is teaching in a normal class or normal school. But what's so great about these online apps is that they're adaptive. So what can happen is they can basically move at the pace and present the appropriate material to a kid. So if you contrast that to in a standard classroom where a teacher's teaching the 20 kids, there is so much variation. You can have a sixth grade class. You have kids who are doing math at a 12th grade level. You can have kids who are doing math at a first grade level. How do you pick what to teach? And so teachers have no choice but to kind of teach to the middle of the class, right? Whereas with adaptive apps, they can take each student and be able to find out, one, assess, what does this student know and what doesn't this student know? And then they present the material at the right pace. If a student doesn't understand something, they can go back and repeat the lesson or they can look at a video tutorial or they can read something or they can look at an online resource to learn about that. If a kid knows something and understands it, they shoot right ahead, right? So it's just fully tailored to a student. It's totally tailored. And I'll tell you, we've had learning science that's been around for 50 years that says the best way for a student to learn is one-to-one mastery-based learning. It would be amazing if every student in the country could have a teacher that was just their tutor at all times. That's impossible, but AI has allowed this to happen. So what we do is we use these adaptive apps and then we've got some AI-powered tools that can help basically personalize these lessons even more for students. We also are really big fans of analyzing and measuring data because a lot of the challenge that can come from these alternative school models is are these kids actually learning? We're really big fans of standardized testing because we need to show, and parents will say, is it really possible that my kid can be learning more? And so what we do is three times a year we're using what's called MAP testing, and that's administered, it's a standardized test that's administered around the country. I think five million students a year take it. We measure fall, winter, and spring, and what we find is across the board our students are learning 2.2 times faster than students in a traditional classroom are. 80% of our students are learning three times faster, and we have 20% of our students that learn five times faster. Now, here's the big thing. Parents don't actually want their kids to graduate high school by the end of eighth grade. So the key is it's not that they're learning so much faster but we can do it in such a shorter amount of time. So instead of spending all day from 8.30 to 3.30 sitting in a classroom with a teacher lecturing to a class where most of the time in a classroom in that situation it's pretty quiet, right? It's really more one-way broadcasting. Our students are spending two hours in the morning doing their core skills, academics, using this AI adaptive app learning, and then that frees up the rest of the day for them to do all these super, super cool life skills workshops, and that's what Alpha really focuses on is we wanna make sure that kids are getting great life skills. So learning about teamwork and communication, leadership, public speaking, entrepreneurship, coding activities, things like that. So one of the things that your viewers were saying is like, where's the socialization? It's like, they're getting so much more opportunity to interact with their other students as well as their guides than I think in a traditional school has that opportunity. Because that two hours, of course, comparable to the six like we were talking about of a normal standard of school, but double. Two times as fast for something like that. They're learning twice as fast in only two hours, which is incredible, and then that frees up the rest of the day. What we've found too is that for any student to learn well, there's two things required, and I think most educators would agree. You do have to have the right material and the right level presented, because if it's too far for you, it's gonna be hard to keep up, and if it's not advanced for you, you're gonna be bored, but you also need motivation. We have to have a motivated student, and what we've found is the best way to motivate a student is to give them that time back to do things. So in the elementary level, where you're gonna be able to see some of the things that we do for cool workshops, these kids are having so much fun. They love it. That's why they would rather go to school than go on vacation, right? At the high school level, our students are freed up in the afternoons to go work on what we call their masterpiece projects. So for example, we've got a senior in high school who raised $450,000, and literally, that was with strangers, not friends and family. That was from strangers that he raised money to build a mountain bike park in Texas. He also was able to secure a $3 million piece of land. It's out by Marble Falls. It's opening, and he's someone who, he loves to mountain bike. He mountain bikes like 30 hours a week, and he's loved to do that since he was sixth grade, seventh grade, but then it was like, okay, you have this time in high school. You're learning in the morning. What are you gonna do with the rest of it? He's like, I'm gonna build a business, and talk about incredible life skill development that he's having. He was just named one of the Austin Business Journal's 25 Under 25. We have so many other students, and I'd love to have you talk to them at some point. We have students who are doing things like creating AI chat bots that give dating advice that's based on good psychology and information, because guess what? Teenagers are gonna get their advice from somewhere. They should get it from something that's a trusted resource that's gonna be thoughtful, so they're working on that. We've got students who get to basically free up their afternoon to go do these things. Now, they're still in school. They're still around other students, so it's not a homeschool thing. It's not whatever. They're here all day, but it's just, I think it's giving people kind of that educational experience that we all wish we'd had, so. Absolutely. Let's talk about some of the TikTok comments. Someone wanted to know, actually before we get to that, I think what's really cool is you're starting to see your first son of students getting ready for college, so walk me through that process. You said your son is one, right? I have a daughter who's a senior. Yeah, senior in high school. My daughter started at Alpha in third grade, and she's a senior, and so we are going through the process right now. In fact, November 1st is the big early application deadline, and so it's a really exciting thing. You know, the college game has gotten so crazy that it's hard, but I can tell you our students, they've got 1,500 plus SATs. They're taking AP courses, which you would get at the normal high school. They're scoring very well on those. They're doing all of that, again, with self-paced online learning to be able to do this, and they're having time to go work on these outside activities. So in general, I would say I feel like our students are really well prepared to do whatever it is, and one of the things we wanna make sure of, too, is that we're graduating students that are prepared to go into the Ivy League, if that's where they end up, or they can go start their own businesses, and they have a choice and opportunity to do that. So yeah, we have our biggest crop of students are gonna be graduating this year, and it'll be really exciting to see how that goes. I wanna talk about someone commented, they understand when it comes to math and sciences, how useful AI and those two hours can be when it comes to core learning, but some people wanna know when it comes to essays, reading assignments, how does that work? So when you think about some of those more liberal arts types of subjects that people think of as creative, right? There are incredible AI apps that can do things like analyze grammar, be able to help students understand where they've made mistakes, what they've done. The other thing that's really great about that, when students are, let's say they're writing essays, which they do, they do a ton of writing, they're writing essays, and they're submitting these, they've got AI chatbots that are coming back to say, okay, here's a better way to structure this, versus, if you think about in a traditional world, teacher grades the assignment, it comes back, the kid gets a grade, they may or may not even look at the feedback that's coming in, but part of what we have is this idea of kind of a mastery approach, so kids can iterate on their essays and assignments in order to make them better. We also believe that kids should, so a few philosophies that we really have. One is that kids should learn to love to read by reading what they love, so we encourage reading from early on. AI can be great around for our young readers, providing stories that are personalized to their interests, you know, with what they're doing. Maybe with them even being like the character. They are the character, and that can be written, so this, and suddenly kids get excited about reading, we can do that. The other thing is, as they get older, right, they're doing more reading, then what we also have the ability to do is we have workshops where we're able to do like Socratic discussion, where we talk about things, so, you know, my daughter's reading, she's in AP Literature, so she's reading a book that she and her students are coming together on this. What this really does in the kind of liberal arts fields is this is saving teachers time by not having to do some of the things that are very cumbersome, but still give kids the ability to write, so we have three students in our middle school who have written and published an emotional health book for young people. They also went and raised money to do that, so they're writing, they're getting feedback on that. We have a lot of adults around that are kind of supporting these kids in doing that, but AI technology is really amazing in being able to help analyze things like grammar. Another thing we do, we focus a lot on reading comprehension, so kids are reading constantly, and then the AI apps are able to look at this and say, okay, here's questions, and let's go into more nuance. Because this technology's adaptive, it can really go deeper and deeper with a student, or understand, hey, they're missing something. You know what, these articles, they're too advanced for this kid's reading comprehension level. We need to kick them back to get something more, or this is too easy, you know, so that's kind of something we see. One of the big things is people talk about AI. It's as smart as the resources it can pull from, which are great, lots of great resources. Do you ever run into, just like a normal human error may have, like any other mistakes? Is that what the guides are there for? Tell me a little bit about that. Absolutely, so, you know, ChatGPT is really good at hallucinating, right? So we're not handing our kids ChatGPT and saying, okay, ChatGPT, teach math. ChatGPT's actually really bad at teaching math, right? But apps like Alex, and DreamBox, and Khan Academy, again, those are being fed with K through eight common core information, so that works, but then ChatGPT can be something where, like, our guides will take some stuff and say, let's work on some more problem sets that focus on football and this with ChatGPT, and then they're able to, you know, check on that. So yes, this new world of AI technology, it's not perfect. You also have to be, we have a lot of scaffolding in place so that kids aren't just having full availability to anything on the internet, and so one of the things around these AI apps is they're enclosed, right? So our littlest learners, any of our learners, you know, aren't just free to roam on the internet. They're within this little world of building apps that are appropriate for their age. I will tell you one place, though, that we do have challenges is, like, we'll have kids, because they can go at their own pace, they might be so advanced that we'll have a seven-year-old doing reading comprehension on articles that may not be appropriate for a seven-year-old. Exactly, and so it's like, this is not like, seven-year-olds want to talk about unicorns and rainbows, and they don't need to be hearing about something that an eighth grader could read just because they're at that eighth grade level. So that's a great example of where AI could go wrong, and we have to make sure we put in the scaffolding that says, let's make sure we're presenting information at the right lexile level for the student, but the appropriate content. Well, and that's where your guides come in, too, I assume, right, they're obviously there as a way to guide. I mean, they're looking at what's happening, and they kind of step in when needed, right? Yeah, so one of the things we want to say is, we don't have teachers, we don't have academic teachers. We have lots of adults that are in the building, and we call them guides, because they're not doing academic teaching. What they're doing is they're providing, basically, motivational and emotional support to really connect with kids to be able to say, like, okay, what gets you excited about learning? What do you like? Where are you challenged? Where are you struggling? What subject are you not enjoying, and how can we make that more engaging for you? And I believe that's what so many teachers really got into this field to do, is to positively impact kids. I think teachers have been really just given such impossible tasks with all of the work they have to do, and this frees up that time. So we have a lot of our guides, our former public school traditional teachers. We also have guides who are former NBA coaches, former Harvard Law School lawyers who have come in and said, I wanna work in education. And what we find is those people are really excited because they're engaging with these kids and impacting them and doing that, and making sure we have a very, very rigorous behind-the-scenes data team that's looking at all of the things that are going on with our AI tools, with our apps, to make sure, again, are these kids learning? We can look at a student and be able to say, this student is spending a lot of time maybe just turning in circles and not making progress. What's going on here? Oh, they're a little bit too high of level. They need to go back to something else or whatever. Or a common thing we've had happen too. We have a boy who's about seven years old. He's doing eighth grade math. His biggest challenge in math is he can't read all the problems anymore because he's so far in math. And so here's what we have to say is, hey, buddy, we gotta work on our reading, right? And a guide would come and say, you love math. I know you're excited about math. You know what's gonna help you do even more in math? When you get a kid connected to the why, this kid naturally is like, I don't care about reading. He's a math kid. He's like, I love math. But then suddenly he goes, wait, you're telling me I could do even more math if I just work on my reading? It's like, uh-huh, little buddy, you can. He's a first grader, and he's like, oh, I guess that is important. And that's the other thing I believe is that any student can perform well. And a lot of times what happens in the traditional system is by a certain age, kids get marked as like you're an average student, or I'm not good at math. I'm just not a math person, right? And what happens is when people aren't good at something, it does make you not like something. I'm a perfect example of that. I kind of fell off a cliff in high school with math, and I was like, I'm terrible at math, and I was not wanting to be doing more of it because I didn't want to hurt my grades. I wanted to do well. And what we find is a kid who says, I don't like math because I'm not good at it, well, we can often find that, gosh, if you're having trouble in algebra, maybe it's because your multiplication table's not totally good. And if you go back and come up with some of those foundational learning and fill those holes, suddenly it makes more sense, and then you're like, okay, I actually like math when I'm doing better at it. And we can get kids more connected on the why for what they're learning. That's what all of this came down to, and the reason I started this school originally is because I wanted my kids to love the process of learning. And did you know currently there's a guy named Dr. Lee Jenkins who did research on enthusiasm in school. Kids' happiest year in school is in kindergarten. It goes down every single year until their junior year in high school when they finally start to see a way out, like I'm gonna get out, and that's ridiculous. We should not be spending 12 years of kids' lives. Well, how much time do you spend in school anyways? Yeah, it should be, yeah. All the time. It's like your second home. Well, and it's five days a week plus homework, plus that, and it's like, no, we need these kids to be able to do something. And I think parents really want, academics, yes, that's important, but parents want kids to come out with great life skills and be able to be successful. Financial literacy, things like that. And we start that early on. We have a currency at our school called Alpha Currency where kids are earning alpha bucks for how they're doing. And then they're saving, and they're spending, and they're doing all kinds of things. And I think that's what we really want of a well-rounded young person going out in the world. One of the big things on TikTok too that a lot of people want to know is how does it work when it comes to students that may need some extra help, special education, spec classes? It's actually really great for the students. So students that maybe need a special learning environment, you think about a typical student who has ADHD, for example, and in their traditional classroom, they're expected to sit very still. In fact, we had a parent who transferred her son over here. He had come home from his traditional public school one day and he said, gosh, my ankles are sore. And she said, why? And he said, well, the teacher put bungee cords around my ankles to keep me from kicking the thing. And she was like, okay, we're moving schools. Now that's an extreme example, but here's the thing, and you'll see this, when kids have the ability to move around and maybe they don't do great. I know for me, when I work at home, I work with a laptop on my bed. Like I don't sit at a desk, this, I'm like, what's up, how's it going, right? And kids need that ability to kind of move around. We have a lot of physical breaks that kids are doing where they can have this. Take someone who has dyslexia. There's another great example. When they're working on app-based learning, they can pause, let me take that extra time to make sure I'm getting this right. Let me review, let me go back. Oh, you know what? I'm having a hard time understanding this from reading. Let me click on the video tutorial, and then I can hear and see someone explaining this concept. And it actually is a lot, you know, it's really great from that perspective of being able to help kids learn in the way that works best for them. And then they've got adults who are kind of coming in to support. It can be really frustrating if you've got a different learning style or challenges in learning. And this is where it helps. We have students who are on the autism spectrum here. And I mean, there's nothing like, first of all, having a culture which we've worked very hard to create, where kids are encouraged to work hard, put effort in, and be celebrated for their accomplishments and things they do. And so, you know, I hate to say, but a lot of times in traditional school, it's like, you're a nerd, or you're an athlete, or you're this. And these kids can be kind of celebrated for what's unique, and it really is delivering a personalized learning experience. It's way more engaging the way that, when they're being literally fed exactly the lesson that works for them, than sitting in a classroom with 20 other kids hoping that whatever comes in is gonna hit. Right. One of my last questions, two more, but the big one. So lots of people commenting about how tuition's $40,000 a year. Something I thought that was really cool that you and Darnisha talked about was, actually 75% of these students are on some form of financial aid. So in addition to that, talking a little bit about tuition, but also, and you don't have to get the incomes of the guides. That's okay. But you said guides are actually paid very well. People were wondering, like, well, do they even pay? So let's talk about those misconceptions. Yeah, so one of the things I thought was really interesting about those comments is they're like, they're not even paying teachers. They do $40,000 a year, and they don't pay teachers. So we do have guides. Our entry-level guides start at $60,000 to $100,000. So our guides are being paid 60 to 100K. We attract incredibly talented people who are excited about working in education. And I will tell you, I believe that public school funding should go to give teacher raises. I absolutely think these teachers who are working so hard doing what I think is an impossible job, they're not being paid enough for it. It's also part of why we can't get enough teachers and great quality teachers to come in. So we are big fans of paying the adults who are gonna spend six plus hours a day with our children. They should be paid well. So our pay structure is 60 to $100,000. Which, that's more than these districts right now. Absolutely. Plenty of them are at 50 to 55, and you're saying the base is 60 up to 100. Exactly. So they're getting paid more. They're not doing academic teaching. They're doing all the other stuff that goes with helping support and nurture. Which, I don't know about you, but for me, I think a great teacher is hugely impactful. For me, I had two. In my K through 12, I had two teachers that were the best. But I had a lot of teachers that were not that great, right? And one of the things that we also ask, and our guides are graded on this, is we'll ask the students, do you have a guide that you feel is changing your life, that has impacted you? And we'll have first graders who are answering that question, as well as seniors, like, are they doing that? And when our guides are able to get up every morning and say, how can I help make a positive difference in these kids' lives, that's what we found. So yes, a big part of our tuition goes to pay our guides very well. The other thing I'll say is that this alpha is an example of a high-end private school model. The types of life skill workshops that our students are doing are unbelievably awesome. I'll give you an example. Our kids are doing remote self, sorry, let me make sure I'm not missing something. Our students program self-driving cars. So they're learning Python programming in like second and third grade. And then we have something called a test to pass, where they have to be able to show that they can get their car. Yeah, exactly. To program their car, they're working in teams, so they're getting teamwork. They're developing coding proficiency. They're definitely getting grit, because sometimes these cars are not going the way that they want, and they gotta figure out, what did I do wrong with this? So we have a test to pass where they have to, their car has to make it all the way around a racetrack. And the kids who pass that test got to go to Kota last weekend for F1. Guess what? F1 tickets are not free. And so those are some of the things. So we have a very, very high-end. We have some of our students who are heading to Poland this year to teach two-hour learning to Ukrainian refugee students. So they're gonna be going to Poland, that's true. So to be clear, this is a model that is a high-end private school model. Now, we're very fortunate that we are able to give financial aid to a lot of families who have needed that. It's not loans, they're not taking out loans. We're providing financial aid for that. But this is a high-end model. I'll give you an example, though. Two-hour learning, which is what allows us to do our teaching in the morning, can be utilized in a bunch of different things. So I'm launching something called eSports Academy in January in Austin. And eSports Academy is gonna take, you guessed it, eSports as the afternoon kind of carrot that kids are gonna get to compete on eSports teams and develop the life skills of teamwork and leadership and feedback. And we wanna work on socialization skills. We wanna make sure these kids are moving into high school with the ability to hold a great conversation with students or with other students, with adults, all that. So we develop that. That's at a lower price point. That's gonna be $25,000 a year. And their workshops are not gonna be quite as crazy as what we're doing here. We also have two-hour learning that we're doing with Ukrainian refugee students. Those students, we don't have an afternoon thing. In fact, what we're doing on that side is it's a philanthropic endeavor. We pay those students $5 a day for doing their math and English two-hour learning. That's their motivation. Just doing their normal education, yeah. Because these kids, they're all in Eastern Europe. Eastern Europe, they literally don't have schools to go to. They're not getting education. They weren't getting educated during COVID and then the war happened. So those kids, it's like, okay, what's gonna make you engage in this kind of productive struggle for two hours in the morning? For them, it's paying them, right? And we're doing that. One of the things when I was mentioning too about wherever kids are and how they do, we can take kids in whatever percentile they currently are and we can raise them up. I truly believe anybody in K through eight can get to the 90th percentile or above. It's not rocket science. Maybe I'm not gonna be an astrophysicist studying in college but I can probably get through eighth grade math. And by using these personalized apps, we are able to get kids up. And so we'll see huge improvements in kids that come in low and are able to make strides which is even more important in today's world where we've had so much COVID learning loss. And you know what? Traditional school hasn't been able to catch up. They're not getting kids caught up. And again, I feel for these teachers, they're being expected to not only catch kids up but then teach them the whole material. And at the end of the school year, they move on to the next grade. Whereas we can have kids who they may need to spend more time or they spend less time when they do that. So yeah, this is, but to be clear, this is the high-end model. And I think that our goal with two-hour learning is we want the technology behind it to be able to come in lower and lower. And then let's say a new school opened that wanted to be a private $12,000 a year school. Their afternoon workshops just might look a little different, right? There's that. And so that's the challenge. Now, public schools, traditional school, I think it's gonna be really hard for them to adopt this because it would just require them to change so much. They would have to say, okay, great, we're gonna do two-hour learning in the morning and then we're gonna do these other things. There's a lot, so that's one of the reasons we're building our own system and I'm opening a lot of different types of schools. And we are having to start at the high price point as we get this going down. And I hope that we'll be able to make this available to all kinds of, yes, as many people as possible.
