All educational content is obsolete. Every textbook, every lesson plan, every test, all of it is obsolete. Because Gen AI is going to be able to deliver a personalized lesson just for you. This is going to be so much fun. I have learned so much from you about what you're building, and I'm extremely excited to share it with everybody else. And I view my role today as like the excited skeptic, which I feel like is the role of a lot of the parents considering Alpha School for their kids. And so I want to go into deep detail about every aspect of what you and Mackenzie have built. But since most people actually don't yet know what Alpha School is, I think you have to start the conversation by just explaining what it is and why the two of you are building it together. Alpha School, it's a high-end private school. It's expanding across the country, but at its core is redefining what school can be for kids and what makes a great school. I'm a product guy, you know, and so you're like looking at it from a product aspect. How can you rebuild school and make it awesome? We look at five things of like, how do you build a great school? And the first is kids must love school. That's just a crazy thought, right, that most people do not believe you, you know, love it. And our standard is we want to build it so the kids want to go to school instead of going on vacation. I've been principal now for three years. Mackenzie started it 10 years ago. I came on three years ago. Two months ago, our high school kids sent us a note and they said, hey, can we go, can we not take summer break? Because we're loving what we're doing so much. We want to continue through it. And so it's sort of a peak. Sounds impossible, but I'll grant it for now. I was one of those kids who definitely did not like school. I dropped out of college and then, you know, in high school, I got in trouble because I skipped school all the time. And so this is a different world for me. You know, and then the second part of it is just on learning. Kids need to learn 10 times faster. And so we built an engine, learning engine, you know, all the talk about AI and learning science where kids can learn 10 times faster. And so in our school, kids go in, spend two hours a day with the AI tutor, with screen time and all the things around that. We obviously consider very good screen time and they learn 10 times faster. So our academic performance is the top of any school in the country and we do it in dramatically less time. And then the key to that is once you can crush your academics in two hours a day, the natural follow on question is, well, what do you do the rest of the day? Because I can tell you as principal, the one thing parents don't want you to do is send them home after two hours. So what do you do for the four hours? And so that's where we talk about life skills. And this is, you know, and re-imagining, what are all the things that as a parent we want beyond pure academics, right? Leadership, teamwork, entrepreneurship, financial literacy, right? Relationship building, socialization, hard work, grit, you know, storytelling, public speaking, all of those kind of things. We do all of that in the rest of the day and those are like big project-based, you know, workshops that are super fun for the kids and team-based and not screen time, right? Sort of the opposite. The first thing you ever said to me was something like, educating kids is the single most important thing we do as a society and it hasn't changed in like 200 years. And let me just dig into that a little bit more as to why it hasn't changed, like how it began and why it hasn't changed because it's been the same way for so long that radical approaches like this one, we're open to radical approaches in everything in the world, like the pace of technology. Everyone's excited about the pace of technology change, but education is one place that I think parents, myself included, are sort of scared because it feels like the ultimate risk to put your kid in something that's different. And so I want to talk about this like 200-year legacy, like why is it like it is and why hasn't it changed? Every parent wants to educate the kid the way they were. I was, like I didn't start the school. Mackenzie started the school 10 years ago and I went to Catholic school. My kids are in Catholic school. She starts Alpha, you know, it took her two years of saying, you know, come to my school. And I'm like, no offense, Mackenzie, I'm not sending my kid to your weird janky school. Like it's weird, right? It's different. And so, you know, I didn't want to do it. And that's the normal parent reaction to all of this because it's all we know. So back to the 200 years is, you know, there were, you know, if you go sort of the Socrates, Plato, Aristotle, Alexander the Great, you know, the elite had tutors. But fundamentally, you know, 200 years ago when we decided everybody needed education, you know, globally, we created the industrialized model and the way to do it is put a teacher in front of a classroom and whatever the class size is, 20, 30, you know, that is actually globally, right? It doesn't matter where you are in the world. You know, you can be in the poor school district, you know, in India and there's a teacher in front of the classroom, you know, the building's not that nice. Or you could be down the street here at a $75,000 private school and it's a teacher in front of a classroom in a very nice, you know, very nice building. And, you know, that is how teaching has been done. What happened is sort of 40 years ago, the schools of education, you know, Stanford was one of the leading ones, but lots of others, took a lead and said, how do kids learn and develop? And there's actually a thing called learning science, the science of how kids, you know, children develop. And, you know, they started writing papers 40 years ago that were basically the teacher in front of the classroom is like the worst way to teach kids. And there's all these ways where kids can learn 2, 5, 10 times faster, but it doesn't work in the teacher in front of the classroom. And so it's not scalable, so you can't do anything about it. Like one of the first papers, there's Bloom's Two Sigmas, a seminal paper, and they talk in the paper, well, if everybody had an individualized tutor, right, it'd be great, but obviously not feasible. There's a lot of other things too, mastery-based learning, spatial repetition, all these other concepts of cognitive load theory. But we can go into those, but fundamentally it just hasn't been possible. That's sort of, I guess, where, you know, my, how I came into the alpha story, which was I was an early AI, old-school AI, not the new neural net. Right? And in the 80s, I actually wrote a paper in high school on AI, and one of my paragraphs was like neural nets, but they're decades away. Right? Back then, it was all expert systems and ontologies, right? And so, you know, and then I went to Stanford, and I was actually in a class with Ed Feigenbaum, Professor Feigenbaum, who was the father of expert systems. And, you know, he's talking about how these things are worth millions of dollars if you ever get them to work. And so, you know, my classmates and I, a couple of us, we dropped out and started Trilogy. And we spent, our claim to fame in the 90s was we were the first AI product to sell a billion dollars. And so that was our, you know, but old-school, old-school stuff. But then three years ago when Gen AI came out, it was like, oh, neural nets are here. They're here, finally. It's decades later. It's decades here, and my kids were at Alpha, because 10 years ago they, I didn't talk about it, I eventually did send them to Alpha, which is a great story of how they got there, but it wasn't scalable, just like all other educational things. I was like, Mackenzie, you have a great school here, and it's great for my kids, and your kids, and all kids go to Alpha, but this can't scale. Three years ago with Gen AI, I was like, ah, this is finally the technology that is going to allow education to scale, and we can take all this awesomeness where kids can learn two, five, 10 times better, faster, and get it out to a billion kids. That's when I became principal, because I was like, okay, Mackenzie, we can totally make this, you know, a super scalable thing, but I'm a product guy. I got to be in it. I got to see what happens when fifth graders get in a fight, and when parents yell at you, and all of those things, so. So if we think about the school as, there's lots of components, but I want to spend a chunk of time on just the two hours of learning, and whether that should be one hour, or three hours, or, you know, aspects of that, and then the afternoon session, the sort of life skills, the motivation, everything else. Maybe starting with the chapters that the two-hour learning has gone through. My understanding is that originally, it's always been computer-based, trying to make it personalized, using external tools like IXL and others that people may know about, but then layering in critically like a feedback mechanism, which I know for you is like, you know, incredibly important in anything that you build, that tight feedback and iteration matters a lot. So maybe talk us through the various iterations of this software itself, and like literally what it is, and what it does, what it feels like to use. Khan Academy is sort of the best one. People are familiar with that one. This concept, and actually homeschoolers know this a lot, is most homeschoolers only spend a couple hours a day, you know, with apps, trying to teach. Now, so the evolution very much was using various apps, you know, and figuring out, okay, here's, you know, 10 years ago, DreamBox was one of the leading apps back then, you know, and there's using apps in order to have kids learn. The evolution has been, how do you make the apps better? How do you get better educational outcomes and less time? So, and there's little revisionist history since I've only been here the three years, but fundamentally the design goal that, you know, our team uses is when we put in new software or new anything, does it increase their academic knowledge or reduce the time that it takes to learn it, right? That's basically, you're like, how do I get knowledge into a kid's head and not crammed where they're going to forget it, where it truly is, you know, back to learning science, it's going to change the scheme of their brain, right? It's going to change it, and it's going to be there forever, right? And how do I do that and create thinking, right? And create knowledge acquisition, and how do I do that in the most efficient way possible? And there's lots of the learning science that says, here's how you do that. And so what we've been doing is saying, great, sort of since I took over or, you know, became principal and started building out this product was, all right, what can you do? What are the principles of learning science that are the foundations of this that now can have a kid learn and learn well? And so, but when you come in, so how does it work? So let's take a new kid. You're going to come in, the first thing that, you know, apps are really good at is figuring out what you know and what you don't know, right? And so it's going to be able to ask you some questions and just think of any kind of assessment test. There's lots of them out there. A MAPS test would be a good example. It's figuring out, you know, what do you know and what do you don't know? And then once we figure that out, we give you lessons to build up your knowledge from wherever you are. And so the first thing you have to do in this, you know, that's very different is age grade and knowledge grade are very different things, right? That just because you're in sixth grade age-wise doesn't mean you actually should be in sixth grade content. And this is one of the big things that's different for a teacher in front of a classroom model, right? Where a teacher has to deliver sixth grade material. I'm a sixth grade teacher. I'm doing sixth grade lessons, right? The magic, right? And this is what the, you know, the AI tutor can do is say, look, I don't know, I don't know what happened. It was COVID, whatever happened. You were on holiday, you know, you missed those lessons. You don't know this fourth grade material. And so I'm just going to give you this fourth grade lesson, even though age-wise you're in sixth grade. And the reason you've been struggling in sixth grade material is because you didn't know this fourth grade concept, right? That if you're doing fractions and you haven't mastered division, right? You're going to sit there and say, God, this fraction problem is really hard. But the real issue is, well, just go back and learn your division and then the fraction is going to be easier. And, you know, most of knowledge is hierarchical where it's based on foundation. You know, algebra is basically advanced fraction manipulation. Fractions is multiplication and division, right? You can just keep going down the tree where you have to actually learn bottom-up and have mastery. One of the big concepts of learning science is you need to master material, not just know parts and have big gaping. What does mastery mean? Mastery means, think of like a sports analogy, right? Have you mastered the basics, right? How good are you, right? We always talk about, you know, in standard school, there's a whole set of things that like 70%, you know, you're passing, you know, you don't know 30% of the material. And then they move you on to more advanced things. And, you know, it's sort of like in basketball, like if you're the point guard and you lose the ball 30% of the time going down the court, the coach is not going to be like, hey, let's work on the alley-oop, you know? They're going to be like, okay, let's get back to the basics and master the basics so you can get down the court. So basically you have close to 100. Close to 100. So our standard is over 90, right? And so one of the things that we do, you know, versus other apps and, you know, what we had to surround the apps was if you use existing apps and use them at the mastery standard they have, you'll struggle to get the results we get at alpha. Because the mastery standard that's embedded in all the apps and used is just too low. Can we spend a minute on the learning science and the cognitive behavioral stuff and cognitive load theory and all this kind of stuff that underpins the two, you know, less time, you know, better content scores? Maybe just, yeah, just dump on us like the important aspects of those two fields that you've assimilated. Sure. So let's go through just in order. If you take individual personalized lesson plans, the first thing is if you need a fourth grade lesson, it's really important that you're given a fourth grade lesson even if you're in sixth grade. So it's like one-on-one tutor. Right. It's like the Bloom's one-on-one tutor. The second part is you do need mastery. And so back to fourth grade, go learn it, right? And when kids are struggling as they get older, the real issue isn't that they're struggling in the older material. It's the prior material. And so just put them into the prior material. Then as you get into cognitive load theory, which is, here's the way to think about that, is simplification, is you have working memory slots, right? You have, every person has a certain number of chunks that you can work on or registers on a CPU if you're a technical person. And that's what, when you're doing that, that's when you're computing, i.e. thinking, right? What is seven times eight? And I'm calculating what that is. Then the second part of it is, how many times, how many reps does it take to take what's in working memory and put it into long-term memory so you remember it forever? And, you know, there's a certain number and actually people are different. You know, GT kids need fewer reps than other kids. Fundamentally, it's how many reps you need to put it in. And there's a whole concept of spaced repetition, which is if you space them out over time, right, you retain it for longer. This is the, I cram, right, versus do you remember it? Like, we have a workshop with the kids where, you know, if you actually take kids and say, okay, you're gonna do vocabulary words 10 minutes a day, you know, every day. On Friday, you know, here's your test score. We have another group that then volunteers and they're like, no, no, no, I'm gonna cram the night before. They cram the night before and then they take the test and they basically get about the same test and say, like, see, cramming works. We then retest them a week later and the cram kids don't remember anything and the people who've done it 10 minutes a day all remember it and the kids learn, oh, okay, I should actually not cram if I really wanna learn this, which goes back to our whole thing of, you know, they're back to retention and learning faster. You can teach kids to be these self-driven learners where they learn these concepts and actually are excited to learn two, five, 10 times faster, right? Kids wanna learn as quickly as they can assuming you give them their time back. Just to put a fine point on it right now, maybe just like share your favorite of the, even the school's been around for a while, you've been there three years. Some of your favorite outcome statistics, like so far we've been talking about a really radical, cool, new way of educating kids, but you measure everything in our conversations. I've come to appreciate that, like, you are a measurement fanatic and so you care very deeply about the measurable outcomes here. What are some favorite examples of what this method has allowed for in the kids? You know, our academic results are just crazy based on standardized tests. So there's two parts. The first is our kids literally spend two hours a day and that's it. And so, you know, instead of sitting in class for six and homework, right, that the amount, you know, of time they need to spend is so much less than what we spend or what parents expect. You know, the data you need is the average kid at Alpha, if you're a year behind in a subject, right, you know, for whatever reason, to a parent, you're like, oh my God, that's terrible. Well, your kid's only 20 to 30 hours behind. That you can teach an entire grade level of material for one subject in about 20 to 30 hours, right? And you're just like, wait, there's 180 school days and each class is an hour and it's 180 hours plus homework and you're telling me it's 20 to 30 hours and you're like, yeah, five to 10 times faster, right? Over and over, our AP kids, like they'll do AP, you know, world history where our kids all got fives because the test came back a couple weeks ago. They all get fives and they spend 75 hours max to do AP. So this whole, oh, there's a big AP loads, you know, in high school where it's hundreds of hours. You're like, oh wow, it just doesn't take that long. And so this whole concept of, we need to have kids spend six hours a day plus homework for 12 years. It's just, it's not even close to true, you know, in this new world. And then the second part is, okay, they're only doing it two hours. They must not, your scores aren't high enough. And our academic, the reason, you know, we use a lot of standardized tests because, well, first off, when I talked to the parents, I'm like, you wouldn't, even our parents who don't believe, you know, who don't like standardized testing, they actually love it with alpha because they wouldn't believe our results. I'm like, you know, if I sat here and just said, hey, trust me, trust me, that two hours is totally working, right? They're like, what's the test, right? And it's only, you know, and we do a mid-year test. So you come in in August or September and take your MAPS test that we use, we use third party. And then in January, you get your mid-year update. And, you know, for parents who come in, you know, at first they're like, okay, this sounds really exciting. And then their kid, you know, comes in and is doing the two-hour day. Their kid's loving school. You know, somewhere around December because they're home at Christmas and their family members are like, this seems like a fraud, is your kid really learning and all this stuff? They start to get a little freaked out. And then the January MAPS test come back and shows they're learning twice as much in two hours a day. So our standard is in two hours a day, you'll learn twice as much as sitting in class for six. And, you know, for that, that's just, you know, if you look on growth rate, right, our growth relative to any other school in the country is off the charts. Like there's a sub stack actually that just came out that literally just takes our MAPS results and feeds it to AI and says, compare this to the best schools in the country. And they're like, there is no school in the country who can deliver these kinds of results because both you can take in kids who are behind, right? And if they're learning twice as fast, they're going to catch up. So you can take a kid at 50th percentile and get them to top 10% or you can take a kid at 99th percentile, which is usually capped out and all of a sudden put them years ahead, right? And so it works on either side because you're just focusing on the growth, which is how do you teach the kids more in less time? And, you know, you also can just sit there, anybody who, you know, if you talk to the experts in learning science, they're like, well, theoretically, this has all been predicted for 40 years, but no one's been able to implement it. Okay, I guess we're implementing it and it's working. I like the idea that you told me one time that kind of like the microscope unlocked biology that AI unlocks learning science. Yeah. It seems like that's just true. Yeah, so I, this was, this is, I agree back to my favorite analogy is, you know, the sciences, you know, biology, chemistry, you know, physics, let's take those. They had their days of wandering in the wilderness, you know, lost in the wilderness where, you know, doctors were still bloodletting and, you know, chemists were blowing themselves up because they were mixing, you know, and there was an invention of an instrument, right? The microscope for biology and the telescope for physics and the analytical balance for chemistry that allowed more precise measurement, right? And that precise measurement is what allowed those sciences to really take off. And so learning science has sort of been that way. It's in this, you know, wilderness period for 40 years where we still have teachers, you know, in front of the classroom, you know, in just a bad model. Teachers are great. Teacher in front of the classroom is the problem, right? The model is the issue, but teachers are awesome. I want to be really clear because that's a, we should talk about how important the adults in a building are. But back to the learning science, AI allows you to do precise instruction to the student. So, and then second, measure the results. And if you take the AI out, right, your effect is dominated by the classroom, right? And you don't know, is the student motivated? Are they even trying? What's the prior knowledge of the student? Did the teacher actually instruct it correctly, right? And so the environmental variables dominate in the last 40 years with learning science. With ours, with an AI giving very precise instruction and being able to closed loop measure it, right? That closed loop is the magic to your point, which is we have a closed loop that no one else has that our team comes up with an idea and says, okay, theoretically, let's take, you know, Dean Schwartz, you know, chapter K, you know, and put it in. We generate lessons. The students use them, right? How well does this improve teaching? They take a standardized test. We measure how long, how much time they spend. They take a standardized test. We have the results. Did it work, right? And keep that loop going. We're basically the only place that has that closed loop, which is why we're able to get these crazy, awesome outcomes and other people aren't. You also told me the best way to learn is by analogy, and there's another analogy which is I think quite cool is to think about this program like an iPhone that like every year for a long time, they're releasing a new one and it's constantly getting better. And I want to understand some of the dimensions of that with the two-hour piece specifically before we get to the afternoon and motivators and everything else, which is I know you started, like I said before, with tools like IXL. You're starting with a standard set of curriculum that maps to the map tests and everything else. Talk about what has improved the most since you first started applying this, this idea of like wait, not only is this core idea of the learning loop better, but each component part of it can probably get improved like the iPhone does year to year. Yeah, here's the magical part, and this gets into the time back of what we're going to be launching to bring this outside of alpha, is generating personalized lesson plans for kids, for them, is the magical unlock because it affects everything, which is back to motivation and your point of analogies and learning. Let me go far extreme. I have a first grade boy who's like, I hate books, I don't want to read. And you're like, here's a book, right? Good luck. Good luck. Okay, just a second. What's your favorite movie, right? Oh, the Avengers. Who are the buddies on your soccer team, really? Okay, I am going to generate, right, a personalized choose your own adventure story where you and your buddies are saving the world, right? And it's going to be geared exactly to your Lexile level, right? Your reading ability, which is back to learning science. You want to stay within 10% of, you know, where they are so it's not too easy, not too hard, zone of proximal development, right? And so you're sitting there and now I have a lesson that you are going to engage in and you're going to be reading it and you're saving and you're choosing your adventure of where you're going and you're engaging and kids will spend, who quote, hate books, will spend an hour, right, choosing it. And as they learn more, you can move up the Lexile level and such and you can build a personalized lesson just for them that's dynamic. You want to learn fractions, right? You can sit there and say, oh, you don't want to do math, but oh, you want to be a fashionista and a fashion designer. Okay, well, how are you going to do that, right? We're going to make this all in rulers and, you know, dress patterns and all those kinds of things. And all of a sudden you're going to want to learn fractions or I love you, if you love baseball, I'm going to teach you statistics in the term of baseball. AI, and this is the generative part of AI that really matters is all educational content is obsolete. Every textbook, every lesson plan, every test, all of it is obsolete because Gen AI is going to be able to deliver, generate a personalized lesson just for you, right? And it's going to take into account, you know, what is your knowledge graph? What do you know and what do you not know, right? It's going to take in the curriculum. Okay, what am I trying to teach you? It's also going to take into account your interest graph. What do you care about, right? And so all of a sudden you can sit and say, what is my knowledge graph of what I know and what my interest graph is, right? Here's an example of an AI, a generated one where people were doing AP World and they were coming back from a Taylor Swift concert and they're like, I'm having trouble with the start of World War I. And you're like, okay, we'll generate a lesson plan in terms of Taylor Swift, right? And all of a sudden, you know, when I can't remember exactly, but when she was on the, you know, getting the award and they came up and took it and then there was all the controversy and there was a mediator. And literally it just created a table of all the people, you know, who were involved, the Taylor Swift people and then the World War I with, you know, Archduke Franz Ferdinand and all that. And literally the kid's like, okay, I'm going to remember this forever. Or for AP World history, our kids, our high school kids generated this where they go into Sumo, which is an AI music generator and they literally, just like Hamilton, you know, back to interest level and generating content. You know, every kid coming into high school these days, everything they, because we don't teach history that much anymore in sort of standard school. And so if you transfer into Alpha, your knowledge of history is basically whatever is in a Hamilton song, right? That's sort of, that's the, if it's there, they know it. And if they don't, they don't. Well, taking that theme even further, you know, for every unit in AP history, the students generated a song, right? To teach themselves the concepts, right? And they were all just singing the songs, going down, having a great time, right? And they made the material relevant to their interests, right, which massively aids engagement and retention. And so when you think about the biggest changes, imagine getting personalized lessons, right? Geared for your interests. And those lessons though are all based in the concepts of learning science. Like think of giving a kid an unending stream of questions, right, and knowledge at 80 to 85% accuracy, which is sort of the zone of proximal development, which is you don't want to make it too hard, right? Where I'm half the time I'm failing because you're going to get disengagement, right? Talk to game developers. Yeah, they've learned about this. Yeah, you're just game developers. You use the same theory as game developers is how do I keep them engaged? And if it's getting too hard, let's make it a little easier. What's the, you know, I can, oh, it's a scaffolding issue where it's a prior knowledge issue. I can do that. I can use analogies that they know. It's Taylor Swift or baseball or whatever their concepts are. And I just give you an unending stream of questions that you're engaged with that you really like, right? The amount that you are going to learn is 10 times more than you would passively sitting in class, you know, disengaged. And so that's really what the magic is of being able to auto-generate content for each student based on their, you know, interest graph. Now, there is cognitive load stuff also of, well, you know, when you feel confused and overloaded, that's usually when you're overloading your working memory, right? That's also when careless mistakes come in. You can sit there and say, make sure, because every student's different, you tailor the question based on how many slots they have, right, how many chunks do they have? So it's not too hard for them where you're not overloading it. You know, a classic one on this one is fluency, which is fluency if, you know, you can solve harder math problems if you know your multiplication tables and division tables. For students who are struggling, right, in advanced math, part of the problem is just go memorize your multiplication tables, right, which they all can do. And then all of a sudden, their higher-level math scores get better. We have one student who was, you know, and this is sort of a unique, an extreme example, and I hesitate to say it, but, you know, we had a student who was 740 on the math SAT. And in looking, right, they were making careless errors, right? They were basically, in some of the problems, they were overloading working memory. And for whatever reason, this student had never fully, didn't have fluency of multiplication and division tables. So we literally sent her back to third-grade math, right? We're the only school in the world who will take a 740 math SAT student, send back, and she got a 790, right, a 790. And it's that kind of thing where, when you talk about the science of learning, and just, I say it this way, the parent and the student, in this case, were not excited that their 740 math student is being given third-grade problems. They're like, that can't be the issue. But it is, right? It is because you're overloading the working memory and she's just making careless mistakes. And once she has it, right? Just a quick selfish aside, when will this be available for me? Again, I keep referencing, we're going to come back to motivation. I'm motivated to learn lots of stuff, investors in general, like motivated to learn lots of stuff. I'm often facing novel situations where I don't know the physics or the technicals or the this or the that. And I wish I could just input like, yeah, here's everything about me. Here's all my favorite stuff. Ask me anything you want to know. I'll tell you anything. Now, teach me whatever. Teach me avionics. Teach me whatever. I'll take tests. I'll do whatever it takes. How long do you think we are from a normal adult that doesn't need motivating, just being able to input the thing they want to learn about and having a system like Time Back teach it to us much faster? We're focused on K through 12. There needs to be somebody else who does that for the adults. But the next five or 10 years, everybody can have this. This is going to be a standard thing for everybody. Back to a visionary, I was talking to some ministers of education of other countries. And I was like, look, sometime in the next five years, I don't know exactly when, but there's going to be a tablet that's less than $1,000 that is going to teach every kid on this planet everything they need to know in two hours a day. That's coming. It's going to come. And we, our AI burn is like $10,000 a kid right now, but it's going to be down. It's going to be for everybody. It's going to be on a tablet that everybody's going to have. And that is coming. If you're a parent, you should wake up and be super excited. You know, AI is going to affect people various ways. There's going to be winners and losers, right? I'm in Austin, and we have the robo taxis and the Waymos and all this stuff. And I'm like, I would not want to be an Uber driver. This is just not good, right? It is not good for them. For kids, it is an unequivocal good. This is McKinsey's favorite line, and I completely agree with it, which is this is the best time in history to be a five-year-old, because we are going to transform their first 12 years because they are not going to sit in class. People do not like school, right? It is, school experience for most people is not good, and they don't learn. And we're going to completely be able to transform their, you know, dozen years and make it awesome as opposed to the chore that it is to do. How fast does the benefit diminish with age? Like the best time to be a five-year-old, what about to be a 10-year-old or a 15-year-old? Like, will that cohort still enjoy these benefits? Back to catching up and how far. You know, we will take anybody into an alpha school academically if they're willing to put in the time. And when you talk about the time, you're like, wow, you're really far behind, so you can't do the two-hour learning. You've got to do the three-hour learning, okay? You need to take one hour of homework, right, or an extra hour in the daytime in order to catch up. No, because it's, you know, on our dashboard, you know, we literally have one for when people come in where parents can look and say, you know, no matter how far, how many weeks it will take their kid to catch up, right, if they do one hour of homework, right? And so you can take a kid years behind, right? And you're like, well, you're 20 to 30 hours, right, times you're two years behind, great. You're 40 to 60 hours behind. The number of hours just isn't that much, and you can just catch up very quickly. So anybody can take advantage of it. And I believe that, you know, it's getting the curriculum in and getting, you know, and getting that closed loop and measuring it. Yeah, well, let's talk about motivation now. Okay, great. We know that motivation is some huge percent of the problem. I think there's been interesting studies, the anonymous parent that wrote about, whose kids in alpha school talked about this idea that they tried to adopt themselves some of the programs that were underneath early versions of alpha, and they really didn't have a lot of success. Like their kids didn't really want to do it. They kind of complained about doing it on the weekend. There wasn't the feedback mechanism, critically, to show the kids, you know, kind of gamified where they are. But motivation, solving for motivation, both in giving feedback on their progress, but also in what happens in the afternoon, has been a critical part, I think, of alpha's success. So just talk me through the entire, like, journey of learning about this and what you do. Yeah, so motivation is 90% of the solution. Okay, the ed tech is 10%. And so this is actually, and just hitting the ed tech and the software and all that stuff, you know, I come from the software ground. The problem, ed tech has failed, right? We keep putting ed tech into schools and test scores keep going down. So there's no, right, it's failed. And the issue is, ed tech is necessary but not sufficient. It's 10% of the solution. That the two things, every, you know, educators will say you need two things to teach a kid. First and most important, a motivated student. And then second, you need to put them in lessons of the correct difficulty, right? That's, and not too easy, not too hard. So an approximate development. So ed tech does the second one really well. AI tutors, right? We can ask you what you know and what you don't know, take an assessment test, and then we're gonna give you those questions. But are you going to engage? Do you have any interest in engaging, right? Or if I don't engage with the app, right, then I'm not gonna learn anything. Motivation is 90% and alpha's 100% built around solving the motivation problem. There's two stories here on this. Was back to when I moved my kid over years ago, Brian, who was the co-founder with McKinsey of Alpha. I asked him, I was like, what's something that I don't believe about education that I need to know? He's like, kids must love school, right? The first commitment of Alpha is that kids will love school. And I'm like, oh, you know, school's sort of like spinach sometimes, right? And sort of sucks and all that stuff. He's like, you are wrong. Kids must love school. That couldn't be more true. If we're gonna fix education, we have to wake up every day and realize, why don't we make these dozen years for kids? We spend plenty of money, right? We spend plenty of money. We spend a trillion dollars for K through 12 in this country to make kids love school, right? Now, put them in class for six hours, give them homework, make it a very terrible environment. We're not doing that. But we need to change it so they love school and that's tied into how you have to solve the motivation. If you want them to learn, you have to do that. And so, and actually, and just back to the EdTech, one last thing on the EdTech is, you know, EdTech has five or 10% of kids who do well with it, right? And there's a whole paper out called the 5% Solution where the successes around EdTech are, basically, there's a set of kids who love academics for academic sake, right? And learning more, right? They're self-motivated, high conscientiousness, often high IQ kids, right, who do really well, right, in the current existing system. And you give them apps and they do it. But that's not 90% of the market. And 90% of the market is, okay, how do we motivate kids? And so, motivation is the core of the design. So, let's start with, you know, the first part of this, which is, so my first week as principal three years ago, you know, I'm now accountable to the kids must love school, right, and love school so much they don't want to go on vacation, which, right? And so, I'm talking to some fifth graders. I'm like, guys, they're new to the school. I'm like, you know, do you love school? Would you rather go to school or vacation? They're like, no. And I'm like, okay, well, what would make you love school? And they're like, less school. And I'm like, okay, well, how much less? And they're like, no school. And I'm like, okay, well, that seems a little light as a principal to, like, have no school. And so, basically, we negotiated. I was like, look, how about this? If two hours a day, if you engaged in the apps, like, and you'd have to engage, you can't screw around, you can't be doing stuff, but if you really engaged with the apps for two hours, and then you had four hours of the most awesome stuff you love to do in workshops and, you know, team-based stuff that you really loved, you know, would you do that? And they're basically like, okay. And that's when, you know, and I'm back with my team, you know, my software team. I'm like, all right, guys, we have two hours, right? We have two hours, and we have to teach these kids as much as we can, and look, all this learning science says it can be done, and let's go figure this out, and let's create a system, right, where these kids are gonna crush it academically in two hours because that is the, right, you have to have, first, you have to solve it in two hours and give them their time back. And so, the code name of our product, and actually, it's actually gonna be the product when you say, when does everybody get this, right? Next year, our goal is to get this out. Our job, my job is to get this to a billion kids, and so I need a software platform to do it. You can't do it with all the, with just the physical schools, or just Alpha. And so, but Timeback was the name of the product. Give kids their time back. And that is by far the number one motivator for kids. Actually, in that article you're talking about from that parent, motivation's complicated. There's lots of ways.


to motivate kids, right? Our guides, our adults in the building, our guides and coaches, they spend all their day figuring out how do we motivate kids, right? And sometimes it's, you know, the kindergartner wants a sticker. Or sometimes it's, oh, some of the students are competitive and they wanna be top of a stack rank, or something like that. But by far the number one, if you take the biggest kids, your biggest one, your highest, right, effect sizes, give kids their time back. And that drives the huge performance, which is if you took all my other motivations that we use, you know, at Alpha, and you said they have to sit in class for six hours and do homework, I don't know any of those other motivations would work, versus you have to solve the first one, which is you need an engine that teaches kids 10 times faster so you can give them their time back. And then once you do that, these other motivations work as well. But time back is by far the most important motivation. And then with it, it totally works, because kids get it. You're like, well, do I wanna spend two hours engaging the app, right, to then do four hours of great stuff, right? Almost every kid's like, okay, that seems a lot better. So what is the great stuff? Like, what happens in the second 2 3rds of the day? Because the parents don't want the kids back, you gotta keep the kids. So what's going on? The afternoons are all the life skill workshops. There's tons of stories around it, but these are project-based workshops where kids are doing stuff they love, but also teaching them life skills. And so think of a life skill that you want. Oh, I want my kid to be, I want entrepreneurial life skills. So our 5th graders last year, or two years ago, ran an Airbnb, right? And they loved it. And they had to learn, right, P&Ls and gross margin and all these things. They had to learn business. And they were loving it, right? And how do we set prices and, oh, right? And they were decorating it. And this year, those same group were like, well, we want to launch a food truck. Austin has a big food truck scene, right? We want to launch a food truck. And I was talking to one of them, and I was like, why'd you pick, they pick breakfast food, dippers, they call themselves. Why'd you pick breakfast food? They're like, do you understand the gross margin on breakfast foods? They're like, it's just enormous. And you're like, okay, this is awesome, right? And they have the food truck, and on weekends, they're going to car dealerships and have it open. And they're making $1,000 and just think it's great. When you think of life skills that we're trying to teach, we have a whole life skill curriculum, right? Because common core curriculum is the standard academics, but parents have a standard of, okay, well, how do we teach teamwork and leadership, right? Today, teamwork and leadership is taught via sports in America, right? That most life skills in America are taught in afterschool sports. And if you actually survey parents, they're like, where did you learn your life skills? Grit, right, leadership, teamwork, all those kinds of ones. They're all like, oh, in sports. And that's why sports is such a big part of it. Now, you can teach those in school. You don't need to do it. And actually, school is a great place to teach leadership and teamwork and all these other life skills. Our big one, right, it's leadership and teamwork. Second, storytelling and public speaking. You know, and talk about this one, which is if you actually go to the average 10-year-old and you're like, hey, do you wanna do public speaking? The kid's like, eh, it doesn't sound that fun, right? That's not exciting. How do you make it fun and exciting so they love it? You're like, well, you know, we have post-game press conference. You're the athlete, right? Everybody wants to be able to do their post-game press conference. So these kids all practice their public speaking, and then they go up to Austin FC, the stadium, and get to go, you know, once they pass, they get to see the game, and they get to go then sit and see the post-game press conference, you know, with their favorite star. And then we have a deal where then, after the stars leave, a couple of the press stay, and then the kids go up and get interrogated by them. And every kid's like, okay, I wanna be able to do that. Where you're taking, this is a life skill I wanna teach, right, public speaking. How do I frame it in a way where kids are gonna love this and really engage with it? How do you have the teachers, the guides, the coaches do this more systematically? Like, this seems to be, the software really tracks with me. Like, it's very clear to me intuitively how it might scale, because you can program it into the system. It seems less obvious how you could scale something like those examples. I have a friend, a dear friend, who I'm sure will enjoy this conversation, whose son is super interested as a young entrepreneur, as a young teenager, and he's building this little online business. And I'm sure if you told his son, look, you're gonna get four extra hours a day to work on your business, he would bust his butt on the two hours to do anything to run his online sweatshirt shop. But the most amazing version of this I can imagine is that some amazing person that knows a lot about entrepreneurship and online selling and all this kind of stuff is helping that kid. But that matching exercise, it just seems less scalable and less obvious how a system can get built that allows that afternoon to be as buttoned up as the morning. It depends on the age of the kid, which is, so K through eight, you can build an afternoon, and we have built an afternoon set of workshop and curriculum that's structured and standard and can be rolled out, right? Which is, because it's not custom where they're doing individualized projects. Once you get to high school, we have what we call Alpha X Project, which is your four-year super passion project where you have all afternoon for four years to work on you love. And that is very custom. And we actually, every kid's different. We have one student who's putting, she's trying to get a Broadway musical. It's the first all-teen produced, developed Broadway musical. And so she spent years building it out. She sourced all the people from TikTok, right? All the singers. She can fill 1,000 people into a venue now, right? And to your point, there's no guide or coach at Alpha who can help her, right? And so our high school curriculum very much is, how are you a self-driven learner who can use resources, including where AI really gives you superpowers, to be able to do these projects on your own? And that's the difference. K through eight, we talk about, we have a life skills curriculum, right, that the kids do that are designed and managed by the guides and coaches. And then high school is where they transition to where they take ownership themselves. And then they basically get feedback on how they're doing from the market, right? From the public. Are you selling stuff online, right? And they learn how to reach out. And they DM people on Twitter and are like, one thing we've found is super successful adults over-invest in ambitious teens. And so all these kids are out getting help from adults in order to do it, because you can't hire a teacher staff who can do all that. What about the stuff that goes into the K through eight bucket specifically? Like I could imagine if the carrot in the four hours was like an amazing field day or something. That's different than like, you need to learn to memorize some poem and give a public speech or something. The amount of actual motivation can range a lot and it's student dependent. What have you learned in the three years about the sorts of things that kids actually love doing that is the reward for doing their two hours in the morning? So here's, okay, I'm gonna say the most controversial thing I think of the talk right now. There's three things that if I could wave a magic wand and get every parent in America to believe, because they don't believe it today. Like if out of this podcast, this was the outcome, this would do more to change education than anything. The first thing is your kid must love school. We've talked about it and they should wanna go to school instead of going on vacation. If every parent believe that, that would be critical to changing it. The second is your kid can crush their academics in two hours a day. You cannot think and subject your kid to six hours a day plus homework. We need to stop that, two hours a day. And then the third, this is the controversial one about this and that we've learned and is the key to your child's happiness is high standards. And that is the controversial part, right? Which is the kids wanna do awesome stuff. Kids think they're awesome. Kids are awesome. Parents are very worried naturally. They care about safety, right? They care, they worry about their kids trying and failing. And so the workshops that drive excitement, that drive kids loving it, what really engages it, it's not make the workshop easy. The kids wanna go do hard things and the kids wanna struggle and fail. They don't wanna struggle and fail, but they wanna struggle and fail on their road to success. Now they need to be supported by a caring adult. You need high support and high standards, right? Is when we talk about our guides, we should go into that. But fundamentally kids love it. Like we have one of the things you'll see on the videos, McKinsey's Instagram is basically all the videos of all these workshops, right? And all she does is just goes to school and films them, right? And just films kids and there's like half a million or a million people who love it. Cause you're like, wow, this is what school should be like. Well, we have kindergarteners who climb a 40 foot rock wall, right? And when you hear that, and you're not the alpha advisor of it, you're like, oh, that is so bad. That's so whacked. That's too hard, right? And, but when you actually see the kids go through it, right? They love it, right? But it's hard. Like, you know, we mic up the kids as they're going up it, right? And, you know, you'll see somebody that's just like, okay, this is scary, but I have a growth mindset. I can do this, right? And then they achieve it, right? And it's all safe, right? And then they do it and they come down and they're beaming and they're like, oh, this was great. Our guides, right? Who create these workshops, right? We have a whole library of the ones we've developed and we're always constantly, you know, what are the ones that really work and what are the new ones we're trying? But last August, our second grade guide, Faith, she comes and she's like, okay, all the second graders can run a 5k in less than 35 minutes. And I was like, oh, this one, that seems too hard. That seems too hard and God, the parents are really not gonna like that if that doesn't work, you know? And she's like, I know it, I can. You know, she was an athlete at UT. She's like, they totally can. Let's do it. Let's do it. And she's like, now, here's the key. We teach, you know, kindergarten, first grade, teach a lot of growth mindset. You should think you can, right? You guys can do anything. And she's like, we got to start teaching them in second grade how to do anything, not just think it, but how to do it. She's like, we're gonna teach them atomic habits, right? The book, Atomic Habits, which is 1% better, basically, right? And, you know, most adults don't learn that till after college when they read the book, but the concepts in that book, you can teach a second grader. Everybody gets it, right? And so she gets all the kids together and she's like, we're gonna run up, you know, a 5k. Who thinks that's impossible? And like, every kid's like, okay, that's totally possible. I can't do that. You don't miss Faith. And she goes out to the track and she's like, I've signed you guys all this in August. I signed you up for the jingle 5k, you know, at the Devane at Christmas. We're gonna run it. Here we go. And she's like, but day one, we're just gonna walk the track and all the kids walk the 5k. And she's like, okay, so we've established everybody's gonna finish the race, right? And then the next time they go out, they run a quarter lap, walk the rest, half lap, right? And they incrementally do it so that by December, right, these kids are able to run the 5k in 35 minutes. And you look at the finish line, right? And the parents, the kids are crying and it's so awesome. And back to the life skill that you taught, it's not just the heart, right? They love that it was difficult, but they sit there and they're just like, mom, dad, I know how to do anything now, right? And I have those skills that I'm developing. And as a parent, you're like, that's the life skill that you want your kid to know how to do, right? And the way to do it though, first off, right, back to how the whole system has to work, you have to have a system where the kids love school, where it only takes two hours, so you have these afternoons to do this. And then you have to have those three beliefs, right? Those three things, including high standards is the key to your kid's happiness, right? It's an amazing lesson. Can we talk about these guides? I think everyone listening will imagine an amazing teacher that they've had or their kids had. Maybe they'll also imagine a terrible teacher that they've had or their kids had. It matters a lot. I can cite my favorite teacher, looking back to third grade or whatever. What have you learned about who these people are, who they should be, what skills they should have, what role they should play? Like same blank sheet of paper, first principles approach here, I'm sure. Walk us through that part of this. So first part, when you hear about AI tutors and all this stuff, that's just the complete wrong misconception is adults in the building are critical, okay? There's no, you know, people have this image of robot terminators. And terminology, we actually have a lot of discussion around the terminology. Should we call them teachers, right? But they don't do academic teaching. So if you are an adult in our buildings, you do not do academic teaching. And so that's why when we start, we're like, okay, we shouldn't call them teachers then because it gives the wrong impression. So guides and coaches. But then you're like, well, people think they're teachers and it's a new role for teachers. Anyway, we'll see. We'll figure it out. But fundamentally it's what matters. And so think about this is every adult has one or two teachers who transform their life, right? Every adult has that. Our guides are that for our students. Like literally we have a survey question that we ask every eight weeks, which is that exact question to kids, which is every adult had one or two teachers who transformed your life. Is your guide that for you? And that is the standard we hold our guides up, right? These adults, right? These guides, coaches and teachers, right? Their job is, and what they're accounted for is to deliver the three commitments to the kids. That they love school, they learn 2X and learn life skills. That they're accountable for that. And they are seen by the kids as you are transforming my life. And so you think about who's good at that. The first part of it is, and this gets back to academics and the teacher in front of the classroom. The reason whoever is in your head, the reason they transform your life is not because they graded your seventh grade science quiz really well, right? It wasn't, right? It's because they met you and motivated you and understood you, right? And they probably held you to a high standard and convinced you that you could do a lot more. Back to the key to your happiness and success is high standards, right? High support, high standards. Great teachers, right? Are high support, high standards, right? There's a great book, if your readers, Dr. Yeager has a book called 10 to 25, How to Motivate Kids from 10 to 25. It's a great book, right? And we work with him a lot on all this stuff. And that is, you know, every guide at Alpha, you know, lives that philosophy. And that is what you're looking for. You are looking for individuals who, right? Can hold high standards, but also high support, right? And it's different at age, right? So if you go into our kindergarten, you're gonna get, you know, Charity or Mallory, right? And they're gonna wrap your kid in love because that's what, right? The kindergarten, that's what you want, right? But as you get up to middle school and high school, they're gonna be able to sit there and bond with you over, okay, let's talk about the high standards, right? Look at all these great things that you can do. And so it's various things, but we hire, because you don't have to teach seventh grade science in our school, we actually hire ex-coaches as an example, ex-coaches athletes. We'll talk about, like we have a sports academy, right? And we literally have ex-NBA coaches, ex-NFL players, ex-MLB players, right? And they're awesome at holding high standards and providing great motivation for the kids. And so when you don't have to do the academic side, right? And all those other things, and you focus 100% on, I'm gonna hold high standards for the kids, I'm gonna be able to motivate them. Like we probably are the only school where, we have a system where you can go in for every kid and see every motivation that's ever been tried by any guided alpha to motivate them, to see what do they really love? How do you engage this kid? What are their interests, right? And so our guides spend time getting to know the kids, as an example, during the two-hour session, right? The kids do 25-minute Pomodoros. What the guide will do is pull the kid out one-on-one. They're like, you're not gonna do the math stuff today. Come sit down and talk to me. And the guide's gonna be like, ooh, how was your weekend? What happened? Oh, did you win the softball game? Whatever happened and get to know, oh, you seem to not as engaged anymore, what's going on? And they talk through all of that with them. And so they get to know the kids, right? And get them to, you know, we talk about, there's Mount Alpha that you're climbing up and your guide is there to help the students get up the mountain. People who love to do that, right, are the ones you wanna hire. You know, we pay our guides a lot more at Alpha than standard teachers. And how much more, like what percentage more? Our minimum pay for a teacher is $100,000. And so like in the Austin market, you know, that's basically double the pay of it. And you know, you're gonna go get great talent and you're gonna get great talent, not just in teachers. So we can go get people who are the best teachers in any teaching one, but you can also get people who aren't traditionally teachers, right? And that's very much what we believe, you know. And the core of it really is students want, you know, they want these great teachers and you know, you don't have a class size problem. The economics of a school are based on, you know, fundamentally, how much do you pay the teachers and what your class size is? That's, you know, we have some other economics like our AI and our workshop costs, but fundamentally that's driving, you know, the economics of schooling. And so, you know, at the lower grades, we have, you know, low tooling, which is, you know, you're gonna have five students per guide, but as you get older, what you actually find is students don't want that. You know, by the time you get to middle school, they're like, Mr. Lamont, you know, I'm an adolescent. You know, I don't need all these guides around, right? And, you know, they want more freedom, but the ones they want, they want really high caliber, awesome people who are going to know them and motivate them and hold them to high standards. All right, I wanna talk about feedback loops. This is something that we've referenced many a time. It's a huge part of your success outside of Alpha and leading up to Alpha that's allowed you to fund it and be such a force behind it. In your life, you seem to have learned a tremendous amount about the power of well-enforced feedback loops. So maybe just like give us the foundation of this belief. And then I wanna talk about all the many ways in which you've been able to deploy these learnings into the Alpha school setting to give kids feedback, not just motivation, but show them their progress, show parents, show coaches and guides. Where did this like deep belief in the power of iterative feedback come from in the first place? There's two parts to it, I guess. Sort of the individual level and then the systemic level, which is, you know, part of the feedback loops that are really important. And, you know, the biggest, you know, yet to be proven part is we need to scale this, right? We need to scale this. We need to get this out to a billion kids. And so how are you going to measure, right, in success? And so I always look at myself as sort of, I'm a product person, but then, okay, how do you put in the systems that allow it to scale? And the key to the systems scaling is the feedback loop that you know what's going on. So when we open a campus, how do I know that the kids love school, right? How do I know that the parents are super excited? How do I know they're learning 2X in two hours, right? Are the, right, did we hire, are the guides awesome, right? Is my guide in New York City going to be as good as my guide in Alpha? And how do I, right? And so how are we going to be able to measure it all? And so the key on all these feedback loops is if you want to scale it, you have to measure it, right? And you have to provide that loop if we're going to be able to say, we're going to keep this quality at standard, at scale. You know, there's sort of all that that we can talk about. And that's, you know, a big part of what AI enables. It enables a scaling at quality that, you know, I believe 10 years ago you couldn't have done. And then the second one around feedback loops is receiving feedback, right? Is like one of our most important life skills, right? To teach is that, you know, if you are somebody who actively seeks feedback to get better, right? That is one of the most important life skills you can teach somebody. And it's a received feedback is one of our, you know, in our life skills stack, you know, where we have, you know, you know, at kindergarten, right? Our test to pass, like for all our life skills, we have a test that you have to pass because you have to be able to measure it, right? And so it's like, can you receive feedback without crying, right? In kindergarten. And you sort of move up to by eighth grade, do you know that the key to you getting better is actively seeking critical feedback, right? And do you actively go seek it out in order to improve, right? The day that alpha parents get really happy is when their kid comes home and is like, mom, dad, you know, I know I haven't been a good member of the family. How can I, how can I be better, right? And it's, you know, they're like, okay, this, right? And so that whole concept of seeking out in order to improve, right? That concept is critical to just human development and getting better. You know, we call it watching game film, right? Great athletes are like, yeah, I'm going to go watch a game. How'd I do? And how am I going to get it better, right? We actually do the same thing on the academics, right? We have game film where you're like, why did I screw up these questions on the test, right? And they literally will sit there and say, I missed this question because I didn't know the material or, oh, this was a careless mistake, right? So they can start to sit there and say, what is, is my problem? I don't know it, or actually I'm, you know, test taking skills. And you help them do that. You show them the game tape of themselves learning. Exactly. Well, that's part of, like, when we talk about our AI tutor and we didn't get into all the technology, how we use it is completely different than what everybody else thinks. I believe that, you know, there's this whole view that we are going to deploy chat GPT to everybody in America and things are going to get better because everybody needs to use AI, right? And if you take away from alpha, you're like, oh, we should deploy chat GPT to everybody. Okay. Wrong takeaway. It's going to, it is, that is literally the worst thing you could do. Just to be very clear, you are not a principal at a school if you think chat GPT is good. 90% of the use of chat GPT is to cheat. Kids take it. Now, there are 10% use case of people who are like, I need a Socratic tutor where I'm super excited about it and I need to dive in deeper, right? And that five to 10%, those kids are going to crush it with it and you should give it to those five or 10%. 90% of the kids are like, how do I use this to cheat? Okay. And so like we- Because they want their time back. Because they want their time back because they're just trying to get through it. We literally don't have chat functionality activated in our AI. Like it is not a chat bot. It's terrible. And that's not what people need, right? Back to where we use the AI is generating personalized lesson plans and personalized lessons themselves, right? That is a great use of AI. A second great use of AI is actually to watch the screen and coach the kids, right? To give them the game film. We're like, you're, you know, and we can go from the remedial of, hey kid, you're like literally scrolling through the article and looking at the questions and trying to search because you don't want to read the whole article. Just, that's not really going to work well. Or, you know, when you miss a question, you know, here's the video that can help explain it, the little explainer of what you got wrong. And you skip it every time. If you really want to get out of here in two hours, you need to do it. Like our biggest thing is our vision model, right? Which is actually part of the big expensive part because you're streaming full-time thing. It'll come down in cost, but right now it's a lot, is we have a waste meter. Because once again, if you are going to give the kids a time back, they want the time back and they want to get better. They want to become a more self-driven learner where they can move through this faster. So we literally are like, you're wasting 50% of your time and the kid's like, whoa, coach me up. I don't want to waste 50% of my time. So I'm spending three hours when I could spend two, right? And so giving them the coaching of how to learn better, right, how to learn faster and more effectively, right? That's a great use of AI. So just so I understand, like the, I almost want to like imagine we have the engineers of the system here with us and we're now in a technical explainer. The thing is built, I'm interacting with it. There's different things I can do and not do. The entire process, me looking at it, the touches, the scrolls, everything is being monitored completely. And that is being fed what? Through what kind of system? Like that sounds complicated. Like how does that system know it's the little thing at the end of the explainer that I'm skipping? Like help me understand the engineering of the thing. Use Khan Academy since everybody understands it. And imagine a dynamically generated Khan lesson. The video's dynamically generated. The video can basically be about half as long as a Khan video because using the concepts of learning science and more active, right? Passive's bad. So more active engagement. You can teach kids in less time. And it's based on their interests, right? And so you're doing that. And then the video stream itself is actually being fed to an AI model that is sitting there looking for anti-patterns, right? What are the things that kids do? Basically, what are things that our kids do that slow them down that are learning anti-patterns? And so it's looking for those. And then when it has, it's gonna be like, ooh, look, that's waste. And then it's gonna update the waste meter or flag the kid and say stop doing it, right? Depending on what the mode is. And when you think about the technology behind it, just think of back to that data, what's valuable data. The same way having the data stream of all the Tesla cars running around, right? That you're then saying, okay, what are we doing? The data stream of, okay, here's what kids do when they're learning and what they shouldn't do and what to avoid. And then you move it to, so the first phase is go find all the anti-patterns. And then the second one is coach them up on it. So maybe it's a data stream, just a raw data stream that you have privilege generation of because the students are using the thing. Maybe talk about the team behind this. So like how many engineers are working on this? What kinds of people are they? Like where did they come from? Are these like the best engineers from your trilogy USW days? Like who are these people? And then what is their process of turning the raw data stream into actionable lessons in the software? There's a couple different parts to it. So Incept is the core generation engine. And the name actually matters. And this is important, especially with AI and education, which is Incept sort of has two definitions. One is the movie, right? But it's important, you're putting a mind virus in a kid's head, right? That's what you're doing when you're educating a kid, right? You are putting these thoughts into kids' heads. There's a second definition though, like from a thousand years ago, the original from Cambridge and Oxford, which was qualified to teach. And there was a subtle underpinning of you trust the person, right? Teachers are trusted because you're putting things into kids' heads, right? And it's important to understand it's two parts. You're putting stuff into kids' head and you need to be trusted on what's going in. And there's gonna be a lot of controversy, I believe. There is just an AI in general, but especially in education of how we make sure these are trusted generators that are putting things in. You have TikTok as a untrusted generator that currently dominates, right? We should talk later about our standard of TikTok as our competition, which is we have to out TikTok TikTok if we're gonna take over, right? Getting the right thoughts into kids' heads. So there's the INSEPT team. And the INSEPT team you should think is we use all the different LLMs. We have our stuff on top of it where we are generating content. And it's gonna be taking in streams of, okay, what's the curriculum we're doing? What is the kids' knowledge graph? What is their interest graph? What is their cognitive load, right, model? And then be able to generate the dynamic lesson. And so you should think this is gonna be your standard AI type team embedded with massive, a set of learning scientists. So the difference between us and sort of a standard, just using a normal LLM to generate content is we have probably the biggest team, best team of learning scientists who are building this. And that's a critical aspect of it. That's why if you just have, and why I believe all the LLMs that are out and all the educational ones, they're not embedded with learning science, right? They don't follow these principles, right? They don't embed mastery in all these other concepts. And that's why generally when you give them to kids, they just use them to cheat. So you have that side. Then the second side is you're like, okay, I have this data stream, right? And now I'm basically, it's a video model, right? It's just a vision model. And you're just sitting there saying, how do I optimize this vision model to find what I need? But how it started is literally just humans, right? When you talk about human annotation, just watching videos. So three years ago, we would just sit there and have teams of people all night, the kids would finish, and then all night you would just sit and watch the videos and annotate them of, okay, that's what's going wrong here. This is what the kid's doing, all of this. It's like reinforcement learning. And it is, and it's just building out a video model, a reinforcement learning video model with human feedback. And the human feedback's not from the kids, it's from people watching it to say, I need to train this up on how kids learn and what is effective learning, what are the anti-patterns, and what do we want to coach for? And so then you take that. And literally the first month back, three years ago, August, we literally would just take the output of watching the videos, and then the guys would just tell the kids the next day. Fundamentally, that's what you're doing is you need a vision model where you are sitting there training it on how to have kids learn better, how to be more effective, where are the things, and you need, and back to the streams, you need this where you're generating content, you need this to see are they engaging with it, and then you need to be saying, am I really moving the standardized test scores? I mean, are the kids really learning this material? You need that whole closed loop to be able to say, okay, yes, we came up with this concept, we generated this material, right? And okay, look, yes, the kids are learning, right? And you can measure that. Can we talk about the third one as the kid sees it? So this is really helpful. I'm glad we're going to a little bit more technical side of things. So we've got Incept, we've got the vision model, and then we've got the feedback mechanism or whatever at the end, the standardized testing. How does the kid feel that? Like in the anonymous parents post about the school, they talked about hitting your minimums and your weekly scores, your daily scores, like things like this. The kids seem to have this gamified sense of their own progress. So what have you learned about presenting that well and using that last closing part of the loop? Sure, so the kids' motivation. So how do you drive kids' motivation? And so at the end of it, you're giving them a measure of how much do you have to do a day and how much do you want to do a day. So you have a goal setting part where, OK, kids, you can set your goals. And this is what I want to achieve. Then from that, you're like, OK, the system can tell you you need to do this much. Actually, last year, one of the changes we're making for the year coming up is we do, OK, you finished a lesson. And one of the problems is lessons are different lengths. Oh, you have a 25-minute Pomodoro, and OK, I have two 15-minute lessons. What's a Pomodoro? Pomodoro is a 25-minute segment that the kids do for each subject. So they're going to do math, science, language, reading. Actually, they can do whatever order, but it's 25 minutes. So you basically go into the app in the morning during the two-hour session. And you're like, OK, I'm going to spend 25 minutes in math. And then the system is going to give you the lessons. And you're going to be like, OK, here's the lessons I'm going to do. And I'm going to do them to mastery. So I'm going to do them to the highest standard possible. So you have rings that close that say, you did it. Yeah, literally, it's just like the watch. And it's just like the Apple Watch, where it's going to be like, you did it at the high accuracy. If you're doing it with low accuracy, you're not learning. You're just guessing, and you're screwing around. So you have to have 80% accuracy. You did it to mastery. You didn't sort of the mass practice up front, where you locked it in. And I spent the time. I did spend the 25 minutes. And then your ring closes. Boom, you get it. And the kids, back to gamification, they have to do their two-hour sessions to unlock their afternoons. And so all these privileges come around because you unlock things. And so when you come into Alpha, actually, your first day, and I'm transferring from standard school, you actually go into what we call standard school, where you literally sit at a desk. And it's like you're in standard school. And it's like, OK, your job is to become a two-hour learner, where you learn the skills so that you can learn in two hours instead of six hours. And the kids are like, I'm all into this. Let me do it. And so they're going to learn how to engage in the apps, how to use them correctly. If I sit and spin in my chair all day, I'm not going to be a two-hour learner. I'm going to be stuck. Then as you achieve, back to motivation models, as you show you can be a two-hour learner, oh, I hit all my rings this week. I basically finished my lessons. You graduate to be a two-hour learner, which then unlocks all these different privileges. And our guides have different ones at different levels. But think when you see the Alpha pictures where the kids are in a beanbag with their computer or not sitting at a desk. They've unlocked those privileges where they're like, yeah, you know how to be a self-driven learner. You can do it however you want. The booths that we have, they're literally like the phone booths that you see in the Silicon Valley. We have those in our schools. They're famous in our middle and high school because kids voluntarily go in those. Where students learn, where do I learn best? And I'll take my daughter as an example where we have a communal table where you can all just sit together. If you're a two-hour learner, you can just sit at the table. My daughter, she's a talker. And she's like, I can't sit at the communal table because I won't get anything done because I'm just going to sit and talk to my friends. And so she'll say, I'm going to go into one of the booths so I can get it done. And kids, they learn this. All kids learn. I totally know how to become a learner. And if they have the motivation, i.e. you're giving them their time back, they all do. Those skills where you talk about do kids have agency and do they own their learning and are they self-driven, that's all part of the system where you create these two-hour learners, which are basically you're creating self-driven learners, which when you think long-term, that's a critical life skill that you really want to have. And then how do you game it or what is the gamification? There is all different ones where guides will have ones where you have individualized goals, you have team goals. Our Brownsville campus, the biggest motivated for the youngest kids is the petting zoo. So if the whole level exceeds all their academics for a week and a session, they get a petting zoo. And when you talk about motivation, OK, they don't want money. You get the bunny and the petting zoo. Those kids, they'd go do 10 hours of homework. Can you talk for the kids that do want money about Alphabucks and what you learn there? Sure. So we have a whole economy based on alphas. And alphas are used where fundamentally you do these academics, then you can earn alphas. And then how can you spend those alphas? There's a lot of motivations that parents love. Oh, the petting zoo, that sounds really cool. Or I get more privileges. I earn privileges and stuff. Those two. Money is obviously the controversial one that causes everybody to just go, oh my god. And that's a terrible one. So I'm going to give a couple examples of it. Your kid can earn money for doing academics. Parents generally are like, OK, I don't like that. Now, your kid can earn money by doing academics so they can fund their passion project, so that their afternoon workshop that they're trying to do, so when she's trying to do the Broadway musical and has to fly up, she's going to earn money that's going to allow her to do that. Parents are like, OK, that seems OK. That seems like a really good idea. Or, since this audience, it's going to fund your financial literacy investment account. And we're going to take all the middle school kids, and if they crush their academics, we're going to fund an investment, a Robin Hood for kids or whatever, whatever investment fund to teach them investing. Because the key, if you're going to teach a kid to invest, is make sure it's real money in theirs and it's something they earned, not given. Because your loss aversion and all that. Oh, parents are like, oh, that's a great idea. I love that. We're going to have a 50% penalty for early withdrawal. Parents like that, too, actually. They're like, we're going to teach them to save. And so there's all these behaviors.


There's around money that are good. And so those are all examples that our system does with, you can earn the alpha bucks and have those. This is what every parent should do. Because this is super controversial, everybody hates it. And if you care about academics, this is the single best thing you can do to fix academics. So the number one issue in academics for kids, and let's start at middle school, is the reason they're struggling. And if you look at the curves in learning in America, they all start to flatten out in middle school. The median person in high school in America actually doesn't learn anything. Like in a MAPS test, which is a 300 point scale, the median American goes up one point in four years. One point on a 300 point scale, not learning anything. And it starts slowing down in middle school. And motivation engagement's an issue. The other is just, it's the ramification of having a time-based education system instead of a mastery-based education system. You just, you know, and Saul Khan in Khan Video, he has great videos on this, where he's just like, you know, when you're pushing people up and they've only learned 70 or 80% of the curriculum, you should think it's like Swiss cheese, right? It's like you're building a foundation with all these holes, right? And then eventually, as you get high enough, it just gets too much and it collapses and you can't learn anymore. And that's what happens when kids hit algebra, right? And moving up is, the problem's not the algebra, it's the prior knowledge, right? And so the number one thing we do is, okay, we need to go fill your holes. And so let's talk about marketing and motivation, which is actually probably half my job. You know, as principal is, if you go to a seventh grader and say, look, it's not your fault, however you got here, you don't know this fifth grade material. That's why I need you to go back. Okay, they are not into it at all. And the only person who's less into it than the student is their parents. They are like, parents have been taught, my kid needs to be at grade level no matter what. And that's just the opposite of what the learning science says, right? And, you know, it's the opposite of what a tutor does. When you hire a tutor for your school, all they're doing is saying, dude, just give them a fifth grade lesson. And they don't call it a fifth grade lesson or whatever, but that's what you're doing. Fundamentals. Correct. And everybody understands, when you apply this concept to sports, every parent gets it. They all get it. They're like, yeah, master the basics. When it comes to academics, it's like, no, no, no, do all the advanced alley-oops. That is a fundamental, like, how parents think about the world, it's just not right. And so you're like, how do you fix it, right? I got to deliver it, you know? And so I went to the seventh graders, I'm like, guys, all of you can get 100% on the Texas Star, you know, the Texas standardized test. And they're like, no way, Mr. Levi, no way. And back to money motor, I'm like, I'll give you a hundred dollar bill for a hundred on the Texas Star, a hundred for a hundred. They're like, that's still impossible. I can't get one. I'm like, no, no, no, there's a catch. Any grade level. They're like, I can take a kindergarten Texas Star and you're giving me a hundred dollars? And I'm like, well, the Texas Star starts in third grade. And they're like, okay, I'll take a third grade test. And I'm like, great. And so they go take a third grade test with Star, they get a hundred, you give them a hundred dollar bill. They're like, can I do fourth grade? I'm like, absolutely. They do fourth grade, get a hundred dollar bill, right? They're like, okay, you're really gonna let me do fifth grade? I'm like, absolutely. And so they take it and they get an 85, right? 75 or 85. And I'm like, oh. And I'm like, do you want the AI tutor so you can get a hundred? And they're like, let me see how many. And then they see it and they're like, I can do that in a week. And they're like, I'm in. And then they get a hundred, right? And then you do sixth grade, right? And for literally $400, we can do two really important things. We can hole fill, as we call it, which is we can go back and for whatever reason, wherever your kid is, you can go back and fill all those holes and put them on a foundation where they can keep learning. But second, you actually change how they think, which is I can get a hundred on a Texas Star. Every parent, like if you actually survey alpha parents, fewer than 10% of them think kids can get a hundred on a Texas Star. And that's because in the time-based model, the GT kids, right? Only the super smart kids got a hundred, right? In a mastery-based model, everybody can. It's just a matter of effort. It's not about IQ, it's just about effort. And as soon as you break that link for a kid, it changes everything about education, where they sit there and they're like, I can totally do this. Oh my God, right? And so, if you take the alpha stats, first of all, 90 plus percent of our kids who've been there at school a year are like, I can totally get a hundred on a Texas Star, right? And the reason is because they have during the year. Like our building, one of our building, our K through six building down in Austin, gets more hundreds on the Texas Star than a school district of 100,000 kids, right? Because it's just a different mentality and a mastery-based thing. And you don't advance until you know it, right? And so, and you sit there and back to motivation and how do you get it right? If you make everything a hundred, everybody thinks it's too hard. So you say you can pass at 90, but a hundred for a hundred. And everybody's like, okay, I'll do the extra work. It's only a couple of questions, right? Because if they get less than a hundred, right? The AI tutor's like, here's the ones you missed. Was it careless or did you not know it? And if you didn't know it, can I, you want me to give you the lesson? And so the kids can get to mastery, right? You put in this motivation, this very lightweight motivation. We spend 20 grand a kid in this country across, alpha's 40,000 plus, but we spend plenty of money where for a hundred dollars or $400, we could literally change how everybody sees both their capability and how they see themselves. And that's a part that just, you know, back to motivation that really matters is that's a perfect example of using money in order to get people to change how they think about themselves. And a lot of, you know, kids have a view that they have these limits, right? That's high standards, high support. That's what, you know, guides are doing is they're breaking through it, right? And in academics, right? Kids have these hangups, right? Of, you know, look, I can't learn that much, right? I'm that kid and my daughter will probably kill me, but I'll use her on this one as an example. So when she got to middle school, right? She was top, she got to top 10% and she's just like, you know, dad, I'm, and her older sister is the academic one, right, of the two. She's like, you know, I'm not like my older sister, right? I'm top 10%, that's good enough. I'm not top 1%. And I was like, you know, the one thing I know about you that you care about more than anything is you love to shop. And so how about 1,000 bucks? I bet you 1,000 bucks that you can't get to top 1%. And she's like, oh, right? She's in middle school and she like fills her Amazon cart with $1,000 of stuff. And she would just look at it in the morning, right? And then go grind and just do her apps, you know? And we had a lot of family discussions about this because, you know, my wife is like, okay, so first of all, you're paying for academics and, you know, you're setting this really high standard and all this stuff and is this gonna be good for her and all these things. And that's common, right? That's your back to parent. You don't wanna set too high a standard and is this motivation bad? Anyway, she got to top 1%. And, you know, she buys all her stuff and she sits down actually with my wife and is like, mom, I know you didn't like us doing this, right, but you need to understand what it did to my view, which is I never thought I was as smart as my older sister. I now realize I can do anything. I'm sure listening to a story of your daughter, thank you for telling it, every single parent, myself included, is just gonna picture their kids' faces in their mind and agree instantly that they would do anything for this moment of unlock or several of them, which demands, I think, really important and exciting question, which is how the hell are we gonna scale this system across the country? So, like so many things, like a great product, it tends to get built in a small space where it's artisanal and you're trying stuff and you're figuring out the system and then hopefully, you know, like software, you can spread it and scale it across the country. What are the biggest barriers to that being possible? Let's talk on the technology side, because it's not ready yet. We have a whole team of people who wake up every day trying to make it ready to scale broadly, right? And the engine, right, the time back engine, we still have hallucinations, right? It's AI, they're still, and you know, in the alpha environment, an alpha environment's super safe. The kids love school, all the stuff, the high school kids, literally, it comes up with some whack job thing and the kids take a screenshot and send it in and they're like, AI's acted up today, right? And it's fine, right? You release that into the wild and, right, AI robot tutors, terribleness. And so, we got a burndown chart of how we're gonna, you know, we think and we do believe that next year, right, we hope that beta's, you know, between August and December of this year, this platform will be out. And so, the first part is I gotta get the technology a little better. Once that's done, now you get into what are your channels of distribution, right? And so, obviously, homeschool's, like, the biggest thing is there's millions of parents who are like, okay, let me do this at home. And so, the biggest thing, we have a task with 50 plus homeschoolers. You know, the problem on all of this, on the technology, technology's 10% of the solution, right? It's only 10. So, my 10% still doesn't work yet, it's gotta. But then, how are you solving the 90% of motivation? So, when you're in an alpha building, right, or one of our schools, then all of a sudden, you're like, we can solve, yeah, we control it. And we have the motivation, we do it all. You're at a homeschool, is there any motivational model? So, our test, we're not getting two X in two hours with the homeschool kids. Now, we literally, every time we test it, we're putting, building in motivational models, putting in other things so that we can get there. And so, I believe next year, we will have a homeschool version that somebody will be able to buy, the kids gonna be able to sit down and deliver two X in two hours, for sure. The second part is schools, right? We're gonna have a platform that if a school wants to adopt this, right, then you can absolutely do it. Now, one of the hurdles, you gotta rebuild your whole school from the ground up, right? You can't just sort of tack it on, right? This is a full rebuild. And so, our school's really gonna do that. You know, public schools, they have a 10 times harder job than me. If I was a principal or a teacher or a superintendent of a public school, I, you know, as a product guy, I'm like, you have the most impossible job in the world. And I never wanna represent that. Like, what we're doing, my job's 10 times easier because I control everything. And you have a really hard problem. I believe, though, we need to start, right, getting lots of data, right? Proving out lots of things, showing the efficacy, right, that this works with the hopes that in public school, you know, a decade from now, right? My vision on this is, I'm gonna spend the next 20 years of my life on this, right? And I'm gonna need all 20 to get everything in public school spread for sure. Entrepreneurs need to build new schools. And this two-hour platform will cover the two hours for you. You crush the afternoon, right? And let's go start. Let's have entrepreneurial innovation. It's like any, and build on top of it. And so I'll give you an example of one of the ones that, it's not funded yet, but the business plan is super awesome, which is Texas just passed school choice, billion dollars. And so this group is basically, they're building Texas Sports Academy. Their goal is to go to every school district in Texas, right, and build a micro school, which is gonna be a micro middle school for D1 athletes. And they're gonna be based on the time back platform. And then in the afternoon, it's gonna be one of the local coaches, right, that everybody in town reveres, who is gonna have a school, middle school, right, for people who wanna be D1 athletes. And they're gonna spend the afternoon doing whatever awesome athletics, right? Whether I'm seven on seven in football, or we're doing basketball or soccer, all these things, where you can create these innovative educational models, right, so that for a kid who's like, oh my God, I will go crush my, and their commitment that- They don't get to do the fun thing unless they've done the time back, yeah. Unless they do the time back, and because of that, and because of the learning science and the app, you know, they're gonna make a commitment that when you look at their 1,000 school, there's 1,000 school districts in Texas, 1,200 or something, they're like, our 1,000 schools, our 1,000 micro schools, if you view us as an entire school district, we will be seen as the best school district in Texas academically. Like, we will have by far the best academics, right? And, you know, tens of thousands of kids will be in these micro schools, right? And their hope is to launch a year from now when the Texas ESA vouchers come due. And so, and you can sit and see for parents who are like, wow, that is an economic model I could get behind, right? Or an education model I can get behind, where, oh my God, my kid's gonna love school, he's gonna crush the academics, and he's gonna frickin' do his sports that he loves afternoon, you know? And that's the middle school. There's a whole set of parents who can then go build that out. As we prove this out in scale, there's actually a lot of, you know, famous professional athletes who are like, I would love to start a school like that, right? And so I believe that's just a whole huge opportunity. There's another school that we've started, but it's one unit, and we need entrepreneurs to scale it, is GT School, Gifted and Talented School, right? And Gifted and Talented School, we define as, you love academics for academic sake. Like when you're motivated. The five or 10% you're talking about. Yeah, it's the five or 10%. And my oldest daughter is actually like that, right? And she loves it. In high school, she read calculus books for fun, right? And you're like, there is a set of people who just love that and that's where you're just uncapping. Those kids aren't learning 2X in two hours, they're learning 3X, 4X, 5X. They're just crushing it, because they love it. When we get all the guides together, and we're like, okay, how do we juice love of school? How do we make kids, how do we raise it? The GT guides are like, more academics, right? We need a third power hour, right? And all the stuff. And all the other guys are like, no, we don't want more academics, right? More life skills. So anyway, but GT, you can just imagine, right? A different program? No, there should be 500 GT schools around the country, built on the Time Back platform, where kids who love that, right? Can just unleash it, right? The GT school, it's new, but it's super fun. I mean, those kids are like, we're gonna be the last humans smarter than AI, right? And you literally just have this great group of kids who are just like, we love this stuff, and we just love academics for academics' sake. And Math Olympiad, and robotics, and writing novels and all that. But every kid, right, back to, when you really focus on kids have to love school, you're like, okay, there needs to be different school types for different kids, right? And so you just, this platform, this Time Back platform enables that, because you can sit and say, look, the academics are done, right? The coach doesn't need to teach the seventh grade science, right? And the platform does it, right? The app does it. What the coach does needs to motivate, right, the kids, and then do the afternoon workshops, right? And in this case, they'll be athletic. And so if I think about scaling, there's lots of paths, and they all need to be tried. There's the micro schools, there's entrepreneur starting schools, there's refitting that probably happens later in the adoption curve from, maybe the public schools are the very last in the, you know, that classic like adoption curve. But the answer is we gotta, we just need to go hard at all of these solutions, where Time Back and the motivation, you know, the creativity around sources of motivation are thoughtfully paired together. This is one of the tasks that is on my list to do, is, you know, the first part is, okay, I gotta build this product that makes kids learn 10 times faster. Then the second is, okay, we have to have these schools that are sort of the exemplars that prove the case, because no one would believe it. And so alpha obviously is the flagship, you know, high-end private school model. But there's a third part that we have to show in order to really unleash stuff. And that's a business model, right? The business of education, because, you know. Capitalism enters the chat. Capitalism enters the chat, right? That we need to bring capitalism in here, right? And that's obviously a very controversial, you know, view. And my, you know, view is with Time Back, we have to show here's a platform, but you can build great businesses on this, right? And you have to be able to build great businesses in order to attract great talent. It's a trillion dollar market with no good products. The economics historically, right, of education having to work, this completely changes it. I believe we're gonna show, I mean, we're in the cash burn phase and we're burning sort of hundreds of millions of dollars, you know, building all this stuff out. But, you know, given we're gonna have, it's just like anything, which is, it's a huge market and if you have an awesome product. The one element is that I guess I would, if I was talking to an entrepreneur, where everybody's like, don't go into education, you can't make any money, it's terrible, it's failed, you know, all those things. Great products, right? Parents will absolutely pay for great products. Societies pay for great education, right? The amount that we spend a trillion dollars for a relatively bad product right now, right? And so as an entrepreneur, if you look at this, you build a great product, you actually can build, right, great customer base, right? And you can actually, it doesn't have to be a money losing nonprofit that's supported 100% on donations, which is the world today, right? And that's not, you can't sustainably grow. Part of the problem on schooling today is everything has to be nonprofit, right? The organization is nonprofit. And so then you just, you're caught up scaling, right? There are good school system, you know, charter schools out there, you know, where their gating factor is, well, I'm waiting for someone to give me $40 million so I can build a campus. I have a 3000 person wait list. But, you know, back to my economics, I need someone to donate 40 million versus, okay, well, let's build a really good business model that you can build a business model out of it so you can open up 500 of them because capitalism will provide capital. Let's adopt like the ultra skeptic mindset for a second. And as the principal, I know you get to deal with this because you're dealing not only with parents that are at the school, but parents that are considering joining it. If you had to name a thing or two that you struggle with the most personally, not skeptics that you can answer easily, but skeptics that are hard to answer. What are the hardest to answer skeptical points of argument that you come across most often? Well, I mean, your best example right now is just, we haven't done this at scale. Yeah, easy for you to say you got all this money. You have infinite money, you know, selection effect size, all those kinds of things. Absolutely. If the viewpoint is, well, there's seedlings of data here, right? Of trying to figure out, wow, look at some of these data points of what we can do and have been able to do, and then figure out how would you scale it? But fundamentally, the best example is, okay, you're this really high end private school, right? And you have massive, you know, you have all these adults, you have all this money around that. The bigger one is, you know, you get into is the biggest issue. Education is hard because you have to define the product and your customer bases have very different needs, right? This is why when I talk about public school being impossible parents do not agree on what the purpose of an education is, right? What a parent wants in education, right? Is, right? A big bundle. It's a huge bundle and they're diametrically opposed. You know, we're having that in Austin on the public school side where we have three schools that have failed, you know, the standardized tests. And, you know, and so they're trying to be shut down, you know, and the kids moved to schools where, you know, the superintendent's like, okay, you know, he proposed, we're gonna shut them down and move the kids to schools where, you know, the kids do better. And, you know, academically, you know, and there's parents who are like, I don't care about that. I don't care that the school academics is failing because, you know, my oldest daughter went to that school and the teacher, the seventh grade teacher there is so great and I know her kids don't really learn math, but she transformed their life. And they're gonna pick it and say, I don't want academics. Actually, stepping back, if you had to say back to this problem, you know, one of the things that I did not realize going in is how few parents actually care about academics. Back to product market fit and pivoting and all that stuff as a product side. You know, three years ago, I would sit down in the parent meetings and I'd be like, look, if your kid's gonna engage in the app, they're gonna learn twice as much. Two X learning, right? And I'd just be like, two X learning and you'd sit there with the parent and you're like, look, you know, Johnny's not watching the video. And, you know, if he just watched the video after he misses a question, he learned twice as much. And, you know, the parents are like, look, why are you pressuring him to learn two X, right? They just, they don't want it. And it took me hundreds of parent meetings to sort of, I was slow on the, listen to the customer side. And then we switched it to two hour learning. And then you're like, same meeting, same parents, same Johnny, and you're like, look, I'm trying to get Johnny out of here in two hours, right? But he won't watch the video, right? And he can't do the workshops until he does. And the parents are like, Johnny, like, why don't you watch the video? Don't you want to do the cool things? And so back to product market fit, figuring out- Positioning matters. Positioning matters. And every parent wants stuff differently. If you took, you know, when McKinsey, like, puts her GT families and the sports academy families, you know, and she has a lunch with them, you know, and the parents and talking about it, parents want different things for their kid. You know, the sports academy mom is just like, my kids come home from sports academy, and you know, they're sweating so much, I literally just throw them in the shower fully clothed. You know, you know, and the GT parents are like, what is wrong with you? They're like, well, GT school was having a chess tournament at the end of the day. And when they came home, we just continued the tournament, right? And it's just, parents want different things. There's not one size fits all. And we need entrepreneurs who are domain experts in the field. So you want to do entrepreneurship, right? Build an entrepreneur. I mean, you want to build an investing high school and you know, all of that stuff that, you know, I believe, you know, if you look, you know, our New York campus, I bet we'll have more financially oriented workshops in the afternoon than our San Francisco one, which is going to have more tech oriented, right? And so anyway, told the whole thing, I believe we need to bring entrepreneurs in, we need to bring capitalism in here, and we need to create all the different parts of school choice so that parents can pick what they love. And there is this enabling technology, you know, when you talk about, do you have something that's 10 times better that can transform an industry? Kids learning 10 times faster is, and so that they can do it, you know, in two hours a day, is that breakthrough product that can do it. And then back to your point, what's the skepticism? It's like, okay, well, you have to, we have to prove this, the product's not done. Right, we gotta get it done, we gotta scale, and whether it's us or anybody else, this, you know, the tech behind this is, you know, totally doable. Then the second is, for parents is, okay, now that I can think about it, what do I want my kids to do in the afternoon? That, you know, and I think the broader question on all this stuff is, and it was, you know, and I believe it's societal level, right, it's when I was talking to the education ministers. I was like, once there's this tablet, and it's two hours a day, what is your education system? Because it's coming. How do we want our kids to spend their day, right? And what does society want to say, this is where kids should spend their day, because there's no point in having them in a classroom for six hours a day, that's like, that's gone, right? And so, and now you're like, and back to my three things that I want every parent to be, I'm like, we need to make it where kids love school, right? Because they only need two hours, they can love school, and then they can be in an environment of high standards and high support, right? And do awesome things and learn life skills, right? That's, you know, that's the vision that I want, and it is hard to execute and, you know, all of those things, but that's the, you know. That's the next 20 years. No, that's my next 20 years is to do it. And I guess one last to the, anybody in the audience who's like, maybe I want to do this, I can tell you in the last three years, like just career-wise, obviously, I, you know, I had a great career. We'll talk about it in a minute. You know, I made plenty of money and all this stuff, but there's nothing that's more fun and exciting and rewarding than working on education. Like it's, the last three years in the whole scheme of things is 10 times better. I mean, it's awesome. And so, you know, in recruiting entrepreneurs to the vision and mission and excitement, like totally come aboard. Like we need to go build great businesses, but there's nothing that's more fun and rewarding. And back to the bigger picture, there's nothing more important for society. Can you tell us a little bit about Prodigy and the idea of using games to deliver this? Prodigy, there's a game out there. People have talked about gamified learning forever. We very strongly believe in this. I'm investing a lot of money in this space because when you talk about scale, we have our physical buildings, right? And I got guides and I got an expensive footprint, right? Expensive cost to serve to drive motivation. This engine, right? If I get kids to go through it, right? Is going to provide the learning. And so how do I get engagement? And the people who know how to engage kids more than anything is video game developers. They know how to engage kids. TikTok and video games, right? Back to the things. And that is absolutely a scalable way. When I talk about this tablet, I absolutely believe that there will be video games on that tablet that are totally engaging to kids that they will go through and it will teach them everything they need to know. So you'll see when Time Back launches, right? There'll be a section where there's, we have a team of people who's like using AI where they're using AI to build video games on top of the Time Back engine that kids will sit and play. The easiest way to think about this is, well, let's take Fluence, let's take one that, right? Schools have stopped teaching multiplication and division tables, you know, and vocabulary lists. Memorization has sort of gone out of style, which is really, really bad. Like it's really important that kids learn this. But people don't like the grind, right? The engagement's the hard part. I just saw this last week where basically, think of a game like Candy Crush, right? But it's teaching math fluency, math facts fluency. And it's super fun and engaging and it's a super high quality game. Kids are basically just gonna play this game and learn all their fast math facts, right? And that fluency will do more to move up, right, math capability than anything you can imagine. It's obviously highly scalable and you can get that out there, you know, broad distribution. Now, if you take that example though, and then just go large, you can imagine a great triple A team, right, of the best video game designers. And so we've invested over $100 million in getting some of the best video game designers in the world. They're down in Austin and they are building a video game on top of the two hour learning engine that they believe will rival any video game on the planet. And the difference was parents will be happy to let their kids play it and get their kids to top 10%. And I absolutely believe that is, back to motivational models, absolutely. Like, you know, and when we talk about the software side, we talk right now, it's all the physical building side. You know, back to the scale, the time back team is like, okay, I gotta get the engine working. 2026 is how do I take parts of the motivational model that's only been done physically, you know, in person and get it into the software. And so all of a sudden you're like, okay, if the kids just voluntarily play a video game and they're going through it, right, you can imagine. And so, and let me give you an example is I watched, you know, like a test case where, you know, you're asking a kid and you're like, and I'm not a video game person, so maybe I'm gonna get the wording wrong. If I had a training center that would give you extra health, you know, so it would increase your chances, how long would you be willing to go to the training center? And the training center is just gonna be math problems or some academic thing. And these kids are like, it's gonna give me extra health so like I can increase the win and the more I do in the training center, the more health I get. And they're like, yeah. And the kid's like, I do 10 hours in that training session. And I don't, I'm not, I don't, I'm like, how long is these video games? And they're like, oh, you know, 10 or 20 minutes. And like this kid literally just was like, I would do 10 hours of academics. Now remember, it's only 20 to 30 hours to do an entire grade level. There's all these kind of motivational stuff. Or, and so there's a whole video game one that back to I absolutely believe the next set of big video games are gonna be built on a academic engine that's gonna teach kids. The old ones aren't based on learning science and mastery standard and, you know, the kids don't, when, they're not engaging enough so the kid won't grind through it, right? And you have to have that standard. You have to have both. You have to have a learning engine plus the world's best video game. There's gonna be a ton of video game developers. Back to getting entrepreneurs. It's too competitive. Yeah, the old video games are, it's too competitive. Come do educational ones. Because let me tell you, back to financially, parents are willing to pay way more money. The ARPU on a video game that's getting a kid to top 10% in academics, there's 10 million moms in America who would pay 100 bucks a month for their kid to love academics and, right, drive it up. Back to product market fit and deciding. So one of the schools that was opened was a video game school, back to this, where you do your two-hour learning. It's a middle school only to catch kids up, right, so they're ready for high school. And then you do video games in the afternoon. And back to product marketing, there's, you know, you talk to it and they're like, wow, it really works, but there's, parents are like, I'm not sending my kid to a video game school, right? That's a hard, hard push. But if you just pivoted a little bit and say, well, what if your kid came to you and said, mom, dad, I want after-school tutoring? Parents are like, oh, I'd love after-school tutoring, right? And so you can actually create, and there's one that's gonna be created, which is tutoring in tournaments. So after school, you're gonna have tournament games, right? Video game tournaments. So you do your one hour in the app and then you get an hour of tournament gaming time. And we're actually working with some of the big streamers and video game players who are gonna host these big events. And you sort of compare the problem today where parents have to go push their kid for Kumon and, you know, just, you know, do all that. And the kids hate it and it's all this, you know, point of confrontation versus kids coming and it's back to kids must love school. You could totally build an environment where they love it and they're like, yes, I'm gonna go crank the app, especially because it's gonna give me extra health in the video game that I'm gonna go play and I'm gonna play in this huge stream with all these other kids, right? You can build those solutions. It's so exciting for me. We've talked before about this, but this conversation really made it click for me how much time back is sort of like an enabling platform technology that if you get that three-part engine right in the software, which you're working on and as a tractable problem, like a thousand flowers can bloom on top of it. And that makes me wonder, like, we spent all this time talking about AlphaSchool. I would love to just hear a little bit about you and your background. There's not a lot about you in the world. Like most of the press that exists about you is from the 90s. You know, at one point you were the youngest self-made Forbes 4100 member or whatever. And then you sort of went into the wilderness. I don't know, you disappeared. So tell us like your life story. I would just love to hear your personal background and then we'll dip into a couple of topic areas. I grew up, you know, in a business-oriented environment. My dad worked for GE. You know, I was learning what gross margin was and, you know, when I'm 12 years old and things like that. Back to my schooling, I wasn't, I didn't like school. I'd get in trouble. I almost, you know, kicked out of, suspended and kicked out of high school. Didn't graduate college. Cause I'm like, what am I, I can't sit here. I can't sit these classes. Now, one of the things that's really important is academics is one piece of a very, you know, complex bundle. And like Stanford is an awesome school, even if you don't like the lectures, right? Cause everything else around it, like when I was at Stanford, it's like, oh, Steve Jobs is talking. One, you know, one of my best friends, Julia Zielinski. She's like, oh, I'm going to go work at Next with Steve Jobs and learn all this stuff. And, you know, Bill Gates comes down or Scott McNeely and you sit and you learn, you know, from all, whether it's your classmates or just the environment in general, all this awesomeness. And so it's important in education to understand it's a complex bundle, not just, you know, who does the best academically. Even at a school like Stanford. My daughter's there and now as a freshman, and she's like, I am going to start skipping class. She's never, she hasn't had a teacher in 10 years. Right? She hasn't had a teacher in 10 years. And she always, and she is like the one who loves academics. And she always was like, look down on me. Like you would skip classes, dad, you know? Cause she's very much that role follower. And then now that she's there, she's like, oh wow. Like, you know, Math Academy is a way better math app than my math lecture and I'll just use that. But she loves Stanford and, you know, everything else around it. So school's a bundle, you know, and I dropped out and I started Trilogy. And, you know, in the nineties it was, we were, you know. Trilogy started in 89. So we started officially in 89. I would have been class of 90 if I'd grad, if I'd stayed and graduated. It was, you know, we were the rocket ship in the nineties. What was Trilogy at its inception? The core product we built, it's an AI product, right? An expert system. One of the core products of an expert system back then was a configurator, which is putting together, right? Or if you go to a Dell website or a car website and you do a configuration, now imagine it for a phone switch or a Boeing airplane, right? Or medical equipment, right? Things that are super, mainframes. Things that are super complicated where you have millions and millions of combinatorics. And if you sell it wrong, you only find it out on the manufacturing floor and then it costs you millions of dollars to fix. And so basically what our system would do was just, it was called sales builder. It would basically take all the knowledge, right? That was in engineering and manufacturing and put it on a laptop. Laptops were new back then in 1990. And it would put it on a laptop so you could sell things that would work and be eligible and would save companies millions of dollars a day. And so they'd give us millions and millions of dollars for all that stuff. And so that was our first product. We then built around, we had sales stuff, so we built other things around that suite. And then after 2000, we started buying companies, not just builds. So the 90s were all organic builds. And then 2000 was let's acquire software companies. And that's the ESW chapter. ESW, and that's continued right through it. It's a private company down in Austin, generates lots of cashflow. It's why you can take a billion dollars and say I'm gonna go spend it on education. Three years ago, I went to my team who'd been with me for 25 years. And I was like, you've been telling me for 25 years that you could run this company better than me. Let's see, right? Good luck, I'm gonna go be a principal, right? And I said, and by the way, I'm taking a billion dollars so I can figure out and get that going. And so now I turned from boss to shareholder. And literally, I'm like the worst shareholder now in the world. I feel so sorry for him, because I'm like, guys, I need all this capital. I need more cash. No, this expansion that McKinsey wants to do, it's gonna take $300 million. So she has to raise money or we're gonna have to give it to her. So generate more cashflow, guys. And all these software companies, you gotta figure out how to be more capital light, right? Which to their credit, and I will give them a call out. I think on Bill Gurley's, Bill Gurley, by the way, lives right next to our high school. He said on his last one, I'd really love to see a private equity firm that is taking advantage of the thousand dead unicorns. Right? And that very much is what trilogy and ESW, the team is doing is, there's all these SaaS companies, right? Who loaded on a ton of debt, right? In a growth play and they're gone. And so basically their equities is zero and they're being handed back to the private credit guys. And the private credit guys are like, what do you want me to do with this, right? And so our back to what I put the pressure on them of, I'm gonna suck a ton of capital out of you guys and cashflow out of you guys. They're like, how do we become capital light? So they're actually, and they've signed a few of these deals already and we'll see if it really takes off, but they're going to all the private credit guys. And say, we'll handle the software. We'll say, we'll take this whole company, give us this company for a dollar and we'll split the cash flows. ESW and trilogy is known as being like the best operators in the space, right? They can generate more cash than anybody else. And so some of the big names are like, they've sold them a few companies, basically for a dollar and they're gonna split the cash flows and see how they go. But the point is, there's $20 billion of those companies sort of out there on the books. And I'm super.


I, good luck guys, fricking go do, you know, crush that for me, because I'll take the cash. If you think about the lessons from, especially from ESW, I'll talk about Trilogy too, I'm always interested in software, how incredibly hard it is to build software that anyone cares about, pays for, and uses, and then how surprisingly efficiently they can be run once you've achieved product market fit. So if you take like the Elon example, that every time I talk to a software CEO in private, they'd be like, can you believe this guy cut, you know, 70 or 80% of the jobs, and the thing seems totally fine. That there is just a massive efficiency gain in software systems that are at maturity or past product market fit, and that ESW fundamentally was about, how do I take something that's working, but wildly inefficiently run, and make it massively more efficient, and therefore more cash flow generative? Is that like a fair summary? Yeah, growth is expensive. Is a way to do it is, if you're trying to be a hyper growth company, your cost structure, right, and your culture, it's just very expensive. And when you say, okay, I don't need that kind of growth, right, that's why everything becomes that much cheaper. I guess there's two dimensions, because the Elon example brings it. First, just though, just growth, right? And so like, back to these deals, right? You're the private credit guy. The management team of that failed unicorn have been spending hundreds of millions of dollars to, you know, be worth billions and billions, and that's their culture and attitude. And if you go in and be like, dude, like, you're wasting some money here. Yeah. They're like, what are you talking about, right? We have built a culture around all of this. And if I change it, I'll lose all the employees. And so when you go in, you have to be able to say, We don't care if you lose the employees. We don't care if they go, like to Elon Musk, Elon's firing them, but you fundamentally have to be like, my team can run this company, right? And that's back to Trilogy and ESW is just, their capability is they're like, yeah, we can run this, right? And so, you know, that old team that wants growth, they should go on, right? It's companies have life cycles and you're like, you guys are the growth team. You should go get your next growth. There's an AI startup that you could go raise a ton of money for and go play, do your growth playbook. But this particular company that wherever it is, right? It's not a growth play anymore. And so you should run it not like a growth play, right? And so yes, Trilogy and ESW is very good at that. And you can generate tons of cashflow. If you had to name like the three things that are most responsible for, okay, you get a new business at ESW, either for a dollar or for more than a dollar. Dollar sounds like a good deal. And then, you know, a year later, however long it takes, it's now way more profitable than it was before. What are typically like the, you know, one, two or three things that you're doing to make that possible? The number one is, you know, growth versus installed base, you know, as a way to think about it. In a growth company, you care about the new customers and that's all you care about. And in an installed base company, you care about your existing customers. And so literally like, so our team, when they buy a company, the first thing they do is they call all the customers, every single one. And you'll be shocked at these multimillion dollar customers who are like, wow, it's the first time I've gotten a phone call from this company. Because management on a growth company- It's on the prospects. It's not, it's all on the prospects. And you're like, hey, you know, customer success, right? You know, the mantra of Trilogy and ESW is customer success. Hey, what do we have to do to make you successful? And, you know, why don't we set up, you know, quarterly calls where you tell us if we're making you successful and what are the joint metrics? And they're like, wow, this is the first time anybody said that, right? And when you do that, right, all of a sudden you get retention, right? And so retention of the installed base. And that's actually how you grow the installed bases. You know, they're going to sit there and tell you what they want and how to do it. And sometimes you can do it, you know, sometimes there's upsell opportunities and all of that as well, where you're like, great, I'm solving the customer's problem. And that is actually leading to more. But you have to sit there and you have to look at your installed base and be like, this is it. Like- You don't get more. I don't get more. And so I really need to treat these guys really well. And I really need to understand what they want. And I need to figure out, hey, if I do add AI to this product, you know, is there upsell there, right? Is there something that's really valuable? Or, oh my God, the prior guys have ignored you and it's a total nightmare and you're trying to cancel. And it's hard to get off enterprise software. And so you're two years into your three-year, you know, transition plan, you know, can I reverse that, right? Can I provide something where, oh, all of a sudden I care about you, you're going to stop the migration off and, you know, get back on. And so that's 100% of what the playbook is, is just saying, you know- And is the idea, is the objective function, like actual cash flows that can be pulled out of the business versus enterprise value? Like, is that the same as the switch from growth to install bases? Like, look, this thing is a, the melting ice cube would always be the term of art in this space. So just like keep it cold for longer basically and take the cash flows. And if the terminal value is zero, like fine, I don't care. Correct. You're looking at what is your DCF, you're pulling the cash out. And if it goes to zero, right? There are built, you know, there's built to last. Yeah. There's for, there's a cycle in the company where it's built to die. Yeah. Right, right. And you're just like, this, this product is done. Yeah. Right. And what you're just doing is- Making the most out of it. And you're just, and you're pulling the cash out to do it. And there is investment you make because that extends it. Software still is one where if you focus on the customer, I mean, just basics, right? That you can extend your, right? The area under the curve, absolutely. And then you get some nice things like, oh, an AI uplift and, you know, things like that, that, that allow you to do it. What was the transition like for you going from this, like extremely young, extremely successful person that's on the cover of magazines and stuff like this in the nineties to choosing a much more private, quieter existence? So that was all, that was done basically because I got married. So like in the nineties, right? Crazy trilogy, super awesome, right? We're on all the covers. Growth. We're growth. No, a hundred percent growth. It's totally awesome. And then, you know, it's actually, my last podcast was 20 years ago. And coincidentally, 20 years ago, I got married. And so I just decided I wanted a different path, you know, for the family and the kids and what it was. That was a different stage. So, and now, and the why I'm here is, you know, my- Growth. Is, well, my youngest is now going to be, she's a senior, right? And so she's like, okay, you know, back to, trying to give your kids as normal a world as you can. I just felt that being, you know, under the radar and more private was better. Now, as I look forward to my future, I'm like, I got 20 years and, you know, I need to be out there because we have to educate parents. Like, you know, the phase that I'm in very much is, you know, we talk, we have, we talk about two things. We talk about how, you know, our schools, we educate kids, you know, and time back, we educate kids. Our marketing department slogan is, we educate parents, right, because parents' view of education, it's 200 years of all this old stuff, right? And they just think things that aren't true, right? It's just, it's not true anymore. And so, you know, educating parents about, you know, what is possible. And so that's sort of my new role is I have to go out and do that. What lessons did you learn from Trilogy University? I think it's so interesting that that used to exist back in the Trilogy days, and now here we are again. Tell us what that was and what you learned from it. Sure, so we started, you know, in Silicon Valley, you know, dropped out of Stanford, you know, literally living in the garage, you know. We couldn't raise venture capital. It was different back then. We couldn't raise venture capital. We thought our ideas were terrible. One of our co-founders was like, if I'm going to be poor and have no money and live in a garage, I'm going to do it in Austin, Texas, because it's way cheaper than Palo Alto. And so he moved to Austin, and so we all followed him. He was our best engineer developer guy, the visionary behind the engine itself. The problem with Austin, Texas, in 1992, when we moved there, is there were very few software engineers, right? And so what we had to do was build, basically, this software group down there. And so what we did is we basically went to all the best schools in the country, and we hired 2,000 Ivy League grads, you know, Stanford, MIT, you know, Princeton, wherever, and brought them to Austin. And so that was our big thing. And back to the culture was, we brought them in, and, you know, it's an interesting thing about high standards, right? So these are the best kids in the country, right, coming from the best schools. And we're like, if you come down to Austin, we're going to put you in Trilogy University, and this will be the hardest 100 days you've ever done. You are going to work 100-hour weeks, right? It's going to be 8 a.m. to midnight, and we are going to build the most awesome products. And it's going to be the hardest thing you did, but it's going to be great, right? And that was why we were able to recruit everybody, was because of the high standards, right? And it was actually interesting, you know, Microsoft, at the time, you know, our claim to fame was, you know, we got all the best students. At the time, I think Microsoft, you know, sort of the peak of their power, 97, 98, 90% of students would go to Microsoft versus any competing company. And against Trilogy, it was like, Microsoft only got 30%, and we won 70, right? And, you know, and part of it, the reason was, is because we made it harder, right? Where kids want to do awesome stuff, right? And graduates want to do awesome stuff. And you don't want to give them a cush job or all this stuff. You want to put them on the hardest problems where they can work like crazy and do it. And so that was Trilogy University, which that ethos, right, is, you know, we continue it today. There's a program that's in Austin that's running right now called Gauntlet AI, because they're trying to figure out about AI and training where they're bringing down a hundred people into Austin. So they basically scour the world, basically looking for the top one or 2% kids, right? And these are 20 somethings. And they're bringing them down to Austin, and they're doing a hundred days of hundred hour weeks to learn AI, to build apps with AI, and retool your whole career to be like, okay, what am I going to be in the future? And they have it set up where it's actually free for people to go through this. And then if you make it through, and there's like a 50 plus percent washout rate, but they then get a $200,000 job because there are all these companies just lining up for being like, oh my God, these people just worked a hundred hours a week. They're leading at AI. Oh, I can't wait to hire them. And so it's a unique thing where when it started, people were like, no one's going to go sign up to do that. But if you actually talk to the Gauntlet grads, they're like, this transformed my life. This is the best, you know, 10 weeks, hundred hour weeks I've ever done. If I was to watch you like a day in the life from, you know, your podcast 20 years ago to your one, now through today with the focus on Trilogy and ESW, what was your life like? Like, what were you, were you just like a normal CEO running a, you know, software holding company basically? Like, and what was the, like, you strike me as a person that's just relentlessly like pushing to make things better. Where would I find you most pushing in those days? What would be the parts that matter back then is, you know, you're trying to figure out, it's always back to capital, is you're trying to figure out is how much, the trade-off between how much do I have to pay for this company, right? And the more I pay, right? The better caliber asset I get, right? Versus, okay, what's the cashflow I can generate out of it? And then what are the things that generate the cashflow? And so first you're like, okay, what are the innovations we can make about customer interaction and delivering customer success? And, you know, how do we innovate there? The second part is, okay, how do we take this code base and old code base and how do we make the product better, right? And how do we make sure that we're being able to take these and revitalize them, right? And how do we do that? How do I go get people who care about this? And how do I find them? And so it's just looking at, you know, what are the parts of the company that drive your returns, right? And fundamentally back to systems, you're like, you have to have these scalable systems. We've bought over a hundred companies. So anything we're doing, right? You have to be able to say, okay, can I apply this to a hundred companies? If you had a fresh billion dollars with a new young version of yourself in a new, you know, LLC wrapper or something or secret wrapper, and you wanted to invest it in software, how much worse do you think the returns that you would earn in the next 20 years would be from that? Applying a similar playbook to what you've applied versus the last 20 years? Like how much worse is the future of software? It's two parts. And when we talk about SaaS versus AI driven, the SaaS stuff's going to be way worse. Just pure transactional SaaS, I believe, is just going to be dramatically worse than the big, you know, the big winners. The AI native ones. So if you take, and it depends on whether you call AI part of SaaS, AI native companies, and call them software companies or whatever, AI native companies are going to be worth more than any SaaS company ever has been. And so- Because they can just do so much more for the customer. Yeah, it's just your breadth of what you get to do. You could change fundamentally how the business works, right? It's, well, take education, right? You literally are like, okay, kids could learn 10 times faster. It's a multi-trillion dollar industry globally. And there are no other software that's out there, no ed tech, nothing that's ever been built, can have kids learn 10 times faster. And you're like, okay, I have to build a really good product and now kids can learn 10 times faster. The value that it will drive to the economy is just going to be huge. Can you tell me what you've learned from Jim Abel? He was my head of HR. And he came from old school. He was from Bristol Myers, I think I hired him. And this is in the early 2000s. And Jim Abel was one of the most influential guys, you know, in my career for me. He was awesome. He still is awesome. You know, on advice. And it's ironic, you know, if I had to say, what was the best business advice I got? It came from Jim. And the reason was because Jim, first of all, software businesses are HR, right? They are HR businesses. And it's your biggest cost structure. It's your biggest leverage of getting return. It's all that matters, right? And he was an awesome HR guy. And, you know, I was a terrible HR person. Still am. You know, and he would just sit there and be like, let me explain how you can get, you know, why you're like the world's worst boss or manager or however, whatever category you wanted. He did more to help educate me, you know, and grow me than anybody. And I mean, we could sit and I could give you 20 stories. Give me one or two. Give you one? The first one, I remember. So he comes in and, you know, we're doing our annual meeting and I used to write a strategy doc and it'd be like 20 pages like here's our, you know, children's strategy. Here we go. And we get it in, you know, there's, you know, 1500 people in a big room and I'm gonna get up and we're gonna talk this strategy. And Jim was like, what are you doing? This is the dumbest thing ever. You, here's what you got, Joe. You have, you're allowed three lines, three words each. And you need to distill your strategy down to that because 20 page strategy documents, those are useless. And I remember sitting there and I was talking to somebody and I was just like, God, does Jim understand we hire all these guys from the Ivy League? Like everybody can read a 20 page strategy document and this, you know, slogans, right? I'm like, I'd be embarrassed to get up and sloganeer my way through with, you know, the super, super high end. And he's like, Joe, smart person disease. You have smart person disease. You need to craft your message and make it simple and clear. And I was like, whatever. And I ignored him. And then he went and he interviewed every single person in the company, right? And it took him basically months. And he came back and he pulled me into his office and showed me on the whiteboard. And he's like, this is what actually people think your strategy is. Because I just asked them all. And I'm like, wow, that's like literally the opposite of our strategy. Because he's like, right? And he's like, yes, because in a 20 page strategy document, there's always one line that someone can attach to and say, see, I'm aligned. Because you said something. And he's like, you need to go create your strategy where there's no escape. Where your message is so simple that everybody can sit there and they have to read it. And if they feel discomfort because they're not aligned, that's what you're looking for, right? And that lesson. Right. I can feel it in the Alpha School presentation. Kids must love school, right? Kids, the three commitments. Kids must love school. And he's always about the edge. He's like, and how are you going to measure that, Joe? And he's like, kids instead of vacation. And he's like, Jim Abel would definitely pass that as like that, there's no escape from that, right? If you're a guide, right? If you are going to be hired to be in charge, you sit there as a teacher and you're like, I need to make the kid love school. He has to crush the academics and do the life skills. Like, there's no escape from that. And if you don't think that's possible, you won't take the job. Last week, a friend and I went, we were looking for new companies to be interested in investing in. And we went through 500 company websites blind. We didn't look at who their investors were. It's just companies that had gotten some funding. And we went through 500 websites. And we didn't find a single one where it was like totally clear and obvious what the damn product did for the customer. I think if everyone in the world did the three lines, three words each, the world would be a far better place. It absolutely would. And he's doing it from corporate strategy. But then once you do it, you're like, okay, we'll just communicate this to the customer. No, it's just true. It's true everywhere. And that is just, if you communicate that out, that good marketing, right? And he always taught, he's an HR guy, his marketing insights, he came through like Pepsi and all. So he was like a great consumer. He is a great consumer marketer as well, where he'd just sit there and be like, it needs to be a magnet. Good marketing needs to attract and repel that you need to go find who is your target audience. And if you're giving platitudes, right? Then that's not repelling anybody. That's terrible marketing. And he's like, that's terrible vision for a company. He's like, he'd look at most, what are the five things? And he's like, if someone won't say the opposite, it shouldn't be on the list, because then it's a platitude. So he's like, a controversial one when we were back then was integrity, right? Because everybody has integrity on it. Because of course you want that. He's like, it's a waste of word. He's like, because no one's going to put on their corporate core values. I want a company with no integrity, right? Nobody says that, right? And so, yes, you have to have it. I love that, the opposite thing. If it's not the opposite, and you have to have, it's a magnet, attract and repel. And if you won't say the, if there's not somebody else who will say the opposite, then it's wasted, right? You're not getting the clear message across. Is there anyone in addition to Jim that taught you something as valuable that you remember from your business career? Jack Welch was a mentor of mine, which was, my dad worked for him, and then my dad passed when I was 25. And Jack called me and was just like, I'm here any time of coaching or help I can give. And so I would fly up, this was during the 90s. I'd fly up and spend the day with him at GE or wherever. And he was awesome. I mean, his ability to motivate you and back to limitless was just phenomenal. How did he do it? Like, what did you take from him? I'll give you an example. I was flying up, this is, I'm the youngest member of the Ford 400, I'm on the cover of the magazine, right? I'm frickin' 20-something. I am like, right, life is awesome. I'm awesome, right, that whole attitude. And I go up there and I'm like, yeah, look at this, right? And so we talk, and like literally at the end of the lunch, he's like, okay, so Joe, you're like a good product manager. Is that how I should like think about you? Like, you know, a level seven or whatever it was. And he would just sit there and first of all, just be, back to receiving feedback, brutally honest on the feedback of just, let's talk about your strengths and weaknesses here, Joe. And you sort of suck at this. Like, not just sort of suck, you're terrible. But then, taking that to make sure you understand where we are, motivate. I remember I flew back from that trip and I spent, I had so much to do. I have all these things I need to do. I gotta get better on this dimension and my company has to get better here and I have to build better product. I need to learn more. Like, he would both, he'd inspire you to just incredible greatness with the highest standards possible around it. And I'll give you one more. Related, GE Medical had bought one of our products in 1997. And I was up talking to him, he's like, yeah, Med doesn't like your product. And I was like, I don't know if you know, it just won e-commerce product of the year. Like, in the year of e-commerce in 1997. It frickin' won e-commerce product of the year. Jack's like, Joe, I don't care if it comes from heaven above. If General Electric doesn't get a return on its investment, your product sucks, you suck, your company sucks. Like, no. And you're just like, you go from, oh my God, I won product of the year to, he's making a really good point about return. And he's like, you want to sell to big companies, you have to, and literally that helped us create our customer success and how we could show return that we wouldn't just be a product company, but we could show value to the customers. And so, that was what he definitely did. I love that. I'm curious about your motivation. Like, we talked so much about other people's motivation. What is the through line of all your hard work? One of the things that comes up a lot when you ask people that know you, I think, decently well, they'll say some version of this, which is like, Joe's like 9 10ths, just a really nice, high-energy, normal guy. And then he's 1 10th business killer psycho. And I'm curious about that 10% of you. And maybe for you to describe it, if that resonates with you or not. And if so, where it comes from. I'm just a normal guy with this extreme. You should ask my daughters. You probably would have a good view on that. But there is an element of pushing the limit is where you get all the alpha. That's where you get all the benefit. That it's at that extreme where the real truths come out. And so, I absolutely believe, I'm always trying to figure out, how do you take this? Where's the limit? You're going to 11, right? You're like, let's work 100 hours a week. You know how we're gonna get all these kids, right? In the 90s. We're gonna build the craziest bootcamp, children's university. Back to what's hard about educational change. Parents want it the same way. My first day, I literally sat in front of the parents. It was actually first day of school, which was two weeks after I started. And I was like, we're not gonna have any adult do academic teaching in this school. There's like hundreds of parents who are just like, this dude's a whack job, right? And all this stuff. And I appreciate all of those who stayed to us. Some did rage quit, obviously, and totally understandably. That, to me, I'm like, yeah, well, this is how we're gonna make it work, and it's gonna be fine. And of course, there's not gonna be teachers doing academic teaching, because this can do it better. And so, that's where you get the, okay, that seems like that 10% of pushing to it. And today, our two-hour learning engine, and 2X in two hours, right? That thing is just gonna, right? You're just gonna go push on that. No, well, there's no reason why not to, because the kids, you know, 100 facts and ideas an hour in their head. With the TikTok interface, it's just, whatever this is, well, let's just do more. And, you know, I generally think, you know, and on the scale, when you say I'm the 10%, you know, Elon Musk is always the thing. But, you know, you go to dinner with him, right? And he's like, you know, 100X. I'm like, oh, I really suck. Like, I'm terrible, right? He's like, I don't understand why you don't have 1,000 schools already. I don't know what's going on. I'm like, well, it's all these issues. You know, and so, it's all a continuum, right, on where you sit. But yes, it's, you know, that part of it is, you know, designing the system, like, in designing the ecosystem, you know, whether it's a product or whatever, you're like, what are those things? What are the levers that, if you really push them, that's what, you know, keeps going. And it's- So, learning sort of happens at the limit, would be like the encapsulation. Learning happens at the limit. And it's learning, and how do you, there's always the ideas, right? And then, actually, how do you implement it and scale it? Right, it's the Steve Jobs thing of, like, it's really easy to visionary a good product, and there's 10,000 decisions you have to make to make them all work together, right? That there's 10,000 decisions we've made in the alpha system, in a two-hour learning system, in this ecosystem. There's 10,000 decisions that you need to make, and they reinforce each other's, right? That if you, you know, it's a DNA strand, and if you, like, you know, one of the things people often say about me is, they're like, I want 85% Joe, right? I want what Joe's doing, but I'm gonna do the 85% version of it. And the answer is, and they find out, it doesn't work. 85, if 85% worked, I'd do that, but it doesn't. I'm pushing it to where it needs to be for it to work, and if all of a sudden you back off those, it's gonna fail for some reason, right? If you don't believe your school needs to have kids love school, they'll go instead of vacation, you know, it's not gonna work, right? And people are like, that standard is so ridiculous. And you're like, that's the one that makes it work, right? That is the one that makes it work. It's the spinal tap approach to product building. When was the first time you experienced that? Like, this spinal tap approach turned it to 11. I'm so curious about its roots in you. Like, was, were you like that as a kid? Like, did you find yourself, what was the first time you remember pushing something to 11 to see what you could learn at the limit? In high school, this is a dysfunctional 11, I guess, which was, I was always about what's the minimum academic score I can get, but still hit my goals. So like, I would sit there and be like, well, if I get an 89.5, that'll round to 90, which gives me an A, which is the same as getting 99 or 100. And I literally would just do the work to get an 89.5. And so like, right at the limit. There's a time where I literally turned in a test where I didn't finish all the questions. Because I'm like, oh, it's enough now. I hit my 89.5 and turned it in, right? The teacher's just like, God, I hate you, Joe. Like, really? You can't just like finish it? So that, you know, it just, it was the limit side, you know, that would be the, I didn't like school side. It was trying to figure out how to game it. How many days could I skip school and not get expelled? When I really turned it on and was when I started, dropped out and started Trilogy. So, you know, the story here is, you know, my parents were very unhappy that I dropped out of school. My dad was definitely more of the rule follower type and I was too much of the renegade. And, you know, my mom was very upset. There's that Forbes article where they're like, you're a moron, you know, it's a famous title. But, you know, this was a little over a year after I'd started Trilogy and I was with my dad. My dad was like, I know I didn't like you. I'm so excited that you started Trilogy because I was so worried that you were a lazy little shit. I was so worried about it. And it was just because you were in academics and you didn't care. And so you were always trying to shirk and do the minimum. He's like, you know, we're working a hundred hours a week. We're sleeping under the desk. We're just doing everything right. And he saw that I found what I loved, right. And that was that unlock that you want to see in a kid. That feeling of limitless and that I would just, right. We would run through walls to do that, you know. And for him, that was the point. And so that would be the first time when I really, you know, demonstrated that, at least to him would have been that. Like, I agree that, you know, I strongly believe every kid has a thirst for learning. It's just not always academic, right. And you're just trying to tap into that, you know. And for me, it became starting a business and learning everything about it. And, you know, I was one of the world's expert in configuration. I can't tell you why, you know. But it was a means to an end. I wouldn't have just done, you know, I'd sit in the Stanford CS library, you know. Back then you had to read papers, you know, and all that stuff. It was finding that unlock. And then once I did it, you're like, it brings the energy and excitement to it. What was the switch over from Trilogy to ESW? What was the first time that that new unlock happened? Yeah, there really wasn't. Like, to me, it's all Trilogy. There was a name issue. There's like a corporate legal entity. But it's all the same Trilogy. And so there really wasn't, which was we bought a couple companies. And we're like, oh, we really are good operators, right. We're like, oh, you know, we actually run this company. It's really running. Yeah, oh wow, look at this. And, you know, we bought a company and we made, I don't know, 10 times our investment on it. You're like, oh wow, this is like. This is cool. Yeah, this is really cool. It's so interesting, the limitless thing. Maybe it's a nice place to start to wrap up is that the same person I mentioned earlier, my friend, his name is Graham Duncan. He has this idea, who had the teenager selling the sweatshirts that would be so motivated by it, an amazing kid. He has this notion of trying to get people into positive feedback loops. And it strikes me that that is what you are doing now with your time and your money and your attention. You know, I haven't quoted numbers, but it's an enormous amount of your own personal money that you're putting behind this. And it's pretty amazing for me as a dad and I'm sure for everyone listening with kids to think about your time and your energy and your money, that basically what you're doing is putting kids into positive feedback loops where they can feel that feeling of limitlessness. Which for anyone that's felt that, knows, you don't have to talk about it, they know. That is the biggest unlock of their lives. And so I'm very thankful that you're doing what you're doing. I think it's one of the coolest projects happening in America that people are just starting to learn about. Hopefully now a lot more will learn about. I think you know my traditional closing question. What is the kindest thing that anyone's ever done for you? I've had so many, right? Kindness is, my wife runs a kindness campaign around all this stuff. And the kind world that we live in is just, when you look at the kids at the school and you just sit there and say, when I wake up every day, the kids who are in the schools, right? We are like forging new ground, right? This is a startup school. And there's all these kids who buy in and are like, we are part of it. And to a large extent, they're putting their faith in the adults and that includes obviously me to be like, this seems really crazy, right? This seems very different, but I'm all in and I buy in. That's the part that for me, I'm just like, at the end of the day, it all comes back to the kids and their buy-in around this stuff and their willingness to be part of it is the thing when I think of gratitude and kindness, that's the core that makes this all happen. And that's where my appreciation goes like immense amounts to all of them. And there's a few of them who are watching this who are gonna be like, it's time to receive feedback, Mr. Lemont. Here is my critical yet constructive feedback, right? Alex or Tatum or Ella is gonna do that. And that's the part of this whole thing when you think about, and to your point, there's nothing more important for a society than to raise kids. We have an opportunity because of things that have been invented and where we are in the world to totally make it awesome, right? For the kids. And there is nothing, not just more valuable, there is nothing more rewarding, right? To the point of, if I can assemble the dads and the moms who wake up every day and are like, I want this change for the kids, right? We have the opportunity, we need to get all together and make this available to a billion kids, billion plus kids around the world. And I'm in, right? I'm in for the next decade, two decades, 20 years. I'm putting in the first billion, right? Transforming this is gonna require more than that. It's a trillion dollars a year, right? It's gonna require more than that, but there's nothing more important than all of us to work on it. Joe, this is unbelievably fun for me. Thank you so much for breaking your 20-year streak with us here. Kimmy, for everyone here, thanks so much for your time. Thank you. I appreciate it.
