Okay, you should talk to this gentleman over here, Mr. Joe. No, I we had we are Joe. Joe is Joe likes Bitcoin. I do. Satoshi Nakamoto. Look, I don't vocal crypto critic and actor who you probably know from the OC Ben McKenzie just got his butt handed to him bit slapped on CNBC. In my opinion, again, you be the judge for you. As the hosts break down his argument push back that Bitcoin is not a Ponzi, crypto is not a fraud. And your arguments, Ben sort of reduce you to the fraud, at least a charlatan. Ben McKenzie is here is known for his role in the OC and Gotham. He's been a vocal critic of the cryptocurrency industry after delving into the world of crypto and interviewing players from regular holders to Sam Bankman freed his scrutiny, led him to challenge its flaws and shortcomings and even testified in front of the Senate Banking Committee. He's got a new book out. It's called easy money cryptocurrency, casino capitalism and the golden age of fraud. It's co authored with the journalist Jacob Silverman highlights the inherent risks and practices within the industry joining us right now. He's been McKenzie. Good morning. Good morning. And this interview starts off so normal. But what's different about this time versus him explaining crypto in front of Congress, much like a multi level marketing scheme, him explaining crypto in front of Bill Maher described it as a Ponzi scheme. Yes, it's a Ponzi scheme, is that those people weren't in finance, so they couldn't really push back. And not that Joe Kernan is an expert and not that Andrew Sorkin is a crypto expert, but they've interviewed so many notable people that they're able to pick apart Ben's arguments. And to be fair, let's give Ben a chance. What exactly is your argument against Bitcoin? How did you first get interested in this and decide that you wanted to go? I mean, you started writing articles about a couple years ago about this and sort of taking to Twitter with your views of of crypto. But how did this really evolve? Well, like most Americans, I stumbled onto crypto through a friend of mine, a buddy of mine told me I should buy Bitcoin. Unfortunately, that friend of mine had given me the worst financial advice in my life. What was the price of Bitcoin at the time? Oh, 2021, somewhere between like 40 and 50,000 or something probably. He said I should buy it. I said, Okay, what is this stuff? I have a degree in economics. And they weren't currencies. I mean, people weren't using them like currencies. They were using them as investments. That was odd to me. I didn't quite understand what that meant. And you lost how much? So number one, Ben McKenzie bought the top, you know, the actor Ben McKenzie, that's always randomly on CNBC and in front of Congress testifying against crypto. He lost a quarter million dollars, essentially on a short position, although he'll call it something else. No wonder he hates it. He sucks at trading. And to confirm this in one of his recent write ups, he essentially bet $250,000 that the crypto market would collapse. That's a short position, but got the timing wrong. And he lost most of it. And you lost how much? Oh, I know. I hate to disappoint the bros. I was a little early. And I did lose initially. But then I doubled down. You should never do. And I actually did. Okay, you did. Okay. Yeah. So you double down what was down at what 15 or 20 or I mean, they went back down to 30,000. Oh, I wasn't like shorting Bitcoin directly. I wouldn't do that. I don't trust the marketplace. It's that the marketplace is pretty bad. That's your biggest concern with it. The marketplace. Well, my biggest concern is regular people who've lost a lot of money. But number two, all he has stated so far is reasons why centralized exchanges are bad. Why FTX was a scam. And I just looked at the market structure, which is very interesting. Of course, most of the volume in crypto runs through overseas exchanges. Sam Bankman, Freed's, FTX, headquartered in the Bahamas, Binance, which we actually don't know where that's headquartered. They have no headquarters or so they claim. But there's a lot of shell corporations in the Caribbean that they're affiliated with. So that was interesting to me. So you're talking about an unregulated unlicensed marketplace more or less run through shell corporations in the Caribbean. Interesting. So Ben McKenzie is about to flex his economics degree. How much of your issue is around Bitcoin versus the other currencies? Because I can even make an argument that the other currencies are even more precarious, if you will, than where Bitcoin really is. Well, that's certainly true. I mean, even worse is probably how I would say it. I mean, at least with Bitcoin, theoretically, the number is limited, right? There are only 21 million Bitcoin that I can remember in mind. Bitcoiners usually make a conflation there. They confuse limited supply with scarcity. Those are not the same things as anyone with a degree in economics knows. Scarcity only occurs when demand exceeds supply at the price of zero. So something can be limited in supply and scarce because there's demand for it, or it can be limited in supply, but not scarce. I mean, you should talk to this gentleman over here. But the reason I say this interview goes off the rails, so to speak, is because they do. They go off script. Joe Kernan from some prompting from Andrew Sorkin defends Bitcoin. You should talk to this gentleman over here, Mr. Joe Kernan. Because Joe likes Bitcoin. I do. But I bought it at $4,000 and at the time said at the next halving, is it possible to go to $50 or $55? And it went from $4,000 to $62,000. So I had a much different experience than you. Sold most of it at $50,000. I guess I didn't have a lot in it. No, but people are making money and I'm not... No, no. And we have Tom Leon. He's a great, smart guy. Stock Analyst thinks Bitcoin's going to $200,000. So we have, you know, Cathie Wood. BlackRock wants to have an ETF. Fidelity, Charles Schwab, Paul Tudor Jones, Stan Druckenmiller. And just across the board, it didn't take me long to understand how the yen bank could benefit from this. And I also understand distributed ledgers. And I understand it was only, I mean, I didn't, you say you did a deep dive. It only took me about 20 pages of the Bitcoin standard to understand that this was probably something that... Do you think all these firms are going to have egg on their face? So it's a democratized, decentralized future of money is brought to you by BlackRock? I don't know. Now, Ben McKenzie thinks that's the ultimate checkmate. Bitcoin is permissionless. Bitcoin is decentralized. So why would the most permissioned centralized company want it? I don't know. Maybe. They may. I mean, if they think it's gold, they think it's... Well, Bitcoin's just technology. Bad guys can use the internet. Good guys can use the internet. Bad guys would want to accumulate gold. Good guys want to accumulate gold. And not that BlackRock's bad or good, but something truly decentralized, if it has value, is wanted by everybody. The future of money is brought to you by BlackRock? I don't know. Maybe. They may. I mean, if they think it's gold, they think it's, you know, that's why I was digital gold. Right, exactly. And that's why I was explaining the difference between supply and scarcity. Very interesting. Ben didn't really have an answer. Right, exactly. And that's why I was explaining the difference between supply and scarcity. No, Ben, you were explaining something different. His scarcity argument had nothing to do with BlackRock. No, I heard that, but a lot of smart people are fooled by it. You think it's going to zero eventually? No, that's like a... I mean, look, it's a story. I can't predict the future anymore than anyone else, but I would say it's going lower. Yes. Okay. Do you think eventually there will not be something called Bitcoin? It's a story. It'll last as long as people believe in it. But I'm with him in that regard. I mean, to the extent that gold is a story of... I think it's a real... The six or seven characteristics that gold have are all manifested. But I think maybe the most important part of what you've laid out is it doesn't matter if you believe in Bitcoin or any of these or not. It's the exchanges. If the exchanges are run by complete fraudsters and Ponzi schemes, you're hosed either way. Right. But if you bought any pandemic darling, you lost the same amount as you lost in Bitcoin. No. Yeah, you did. Zoom, Netflix was 700, it went to 200. The same percentage losses are across the board in any of the... The stock market, look at the high and lows on any of the meta, just was at 80. It's back to 300. It had already made the round trip. So the percentage losses aren't... Even with blue chip companies, you see 50% down. FTX claimed 1.2 million retail traders in the United States alone. Those people can't get their money out. Celsius claimed a million. Now you're talking about the FTX and you're talking about buying. It's not talking about the underlying asset. Yeah, but that's what it started with. The underlying asset is traded through the exchanges. No, I understand. But you don't need to trade Bitcoin. You have your own wallet and just keep it. That's not how it works. People trade it through the exchanges. And I think it's fair to be concerned about the people who got ripped off by those exchanges. Yeah, I mean... Definitely. But you don't blame it on Bitcoin. You blame it on the exchanges. On Satoshi Nakamoto? Look, I don't... I'm sorry. I'm not trying to be glib here. Like this video right now if you think Ben McKenzie's a charlatan on Bitcoin. And by the way, Joe Kernan is absolutely right that with Bitcoin, we don't need centralized third parties to trade it. Now it sure helps. Exchanges make the process so much easier. But Bitcoin and crypto for the first time in the digital age allows you self-sovereignty. Ben McKenzie is reduced to just funny quips as if he's still in the TV show. Definitely. But you don't blame it on Bitcoin. You blame it on the exchanges. On Satoshi Nakamoto? Look, I don't... I'm sorry. I'm not trying to be glib here. I've spent two years investigating this industry. I've interviewed Sam Bankman-Free, now indicted for fraud. I interviewed Alex Mashinsky, who was arrested last week and indicted for fraud. I've written articles about Binance, the biggest exchange in the crypto industry by a country mile. I have done my homework. If people disagree with me, read my book. There it is. Just like always. See you tomorrow.
