Well, we're shining tonight's spotlight on the future of education and how AI is entering the classroom. Alpha School is a network of private K-12 schools across the U.S. using artificial intelligence to teach students in just two hours a day. No homework, no textbooks, and instead of teachers, students learn from AI guides. Here now to talk about this brave new world is Alpha School co-founder Mackenzie Price. Mackenzie, welcome. What's a typical day at an Alpha School look like? Thank you so much for having me. We have reinvented what the school day can look like when kids love school, are able to learn twice as much in only two hours a day, and then spend the rest of the school day learning life skills by doing group interactive projects, all managed by our human guides who are like teachers, but they don't teach academics. Instead, they focus on motivational and emotional support. And as a result, kids are loving it. What are parents most skeptical about? Well, of course, AI is something that there's a lot of fear around. There's a lot of concern. How do you make sure that kids aren't using AI to outsource thinking or cheating? And those are problems that we've given a lot of thought to. So, for example, we're not using chatbots. Chatbots in education, unfortunately, are cheatbots. So parents have initial concerns, but then when they realize that their kids are getting a one-to-one mastery-based tutoring experience that meets them exactly where they're at, that makes all the difference. Plus, you add the fact that kids get to spend time developing skills like financial literacy and leadership and relationship building. Those are the skills that I think families really want to see their kids be successful. Add to that the fact that they get a little bit of time to spend developing their passions and finding out what they're interested in. Two-hour school days, though. It sounds too good to be true. What do the critics say about that? Well, of course, there's a lot of fear any time that something new is happening. And the traditional teacher in front of a classroom education system has been around for a couple hundred years. Unfortunately, it's not working very well. Teachers have been given such impossible jobs trying to cater to 20-plus students who are all at wildly different levels of knowledge. And so what's been great about this is that teachers start to learn, oh my goodness, if I had the ability to spend time connecting and impacting my students, that's what they got into it for. So that's where I think our guides really shine. And people who are initially skeptical realize that our kids and our teachers are getting so much more connection and building skills, of course, on top of academic excellence. Let's look to the future. Are you working with other schools, other school districts to implement AI? And is AI sort of inevitable to some degree in all classrooms? I believe that AI, when used right, is going to transform the classroom experience for all children. And it's been really fun to be an example that other people have seen to say, you know what, there is a way that we can use technology to really maximize human potential. And so we have had a lot of interest from the government, from administrators and other people. I think in general, the public system is going to be slow to want to adopt. They want to make sure things are planned out well. But what we're doing and seeing across the country with our expansion of schools is that families are really ready to embrace this new way of educating. Mackenzie Price, thank you. Thank you.
