So, hello and welcome to Stories Around the Campfire. This series explores the ways that linguists are out there contributing to solving the challenges of our time. And today we have with us Mackenzie Price of the Frameworks Institute. Hi, thanks for being here. Thanks for having me. So as I was saying to Mackenzie, I'm going to only introduce her very briefly because she's going to be talking a lot about her life and her work, but probably there's mentioning that Mackenzie and I have worked together for a number of years and we currently work together at the Frameworks Institute. So I'm going to pretend that I don't know a lot about the work that the Frameworks Institute does, but there may be follow-up questions where I reveal a little bit of insider knowledge. Mackenzie also teaches at the McDonough School of Business at Georgetown University. So we're going to also talk a little bit about that work, which is also related to her dissertation work, talking about language and business and leadership and power and narrative and all those great things. So without further ado, let's welcome Mackenzie to the campfire. Thank you. And Mackenzie, why don't you begin by telling us a little bit about maybe a recent project where you found a way to use your linguistics at work. Sure. Thanks for having me again. And I would actually counter your question or respond to your question by saying that I use linguistics all of the time in my work. So the organization that I work for and that Hannah, you also work for, it's called the Frameworks Institute, and we are really a cross between communications researchers, so discourse analysts in many ways, but also bring in other social science methodologies. So we're a cross between researchers and communications consultants. So we research different ways to, and when I say ways, I mean pieces of language that can explain science and social issues and be interpreted well. And so we experiment with interpretation of language cues, and then we help people use them and guide them through a process of thinking about how the language they use is interpreted. So when I say I use linguistics all the time, that means I come into every day and every activity that I do at work thinking about language as a system, thinking about language as a pattern system, or I suppose saying system connotes patterns, and thinking about interpretation as a process, but the fact that one cue can be interpreted multiple ways depending on the past knowledge, experiences, current schemas in place, I think about that all the time and help people see that in their own work. And even if they don't see it, I see it, so that's what we do every day. Thinking about a recent problem that I approached as a linguist, I can give you an example that's about three hours old, so the task kind of on the surface level was working with a state agency that is putting together or got a proposal from a ad agency to put together a campaign, media campaign about substance use, and so they wanted Framework's view of this and Framework's view delivered through me, and so what I did was look at this proposal for a campaign, and because it was a proposal, it had multiple pieces, so it had an opening section that set the stage and talked about what some of the objectives were of the campaign and what the core ideas that had to be communicated are, and then it had a second section with examples of how these core ideas were going to be communicated with the public, and so my job or the way I approached this was looking at the way different parts of different discussions or topics related to substance use and what some of their communications goals were in terms of actual data points were being presented in these sample media pieces, and what I wanted to help the people I was going to be talking with see is how the media pieces that this agency was proposing putting together might be interpreted, and the reason I was doing that is because one of the things that Framework's does as a part of our work with any topic is do some qualitative research, discourse analysis basically, of interview data on topics, so we've done discourse analysis of interview data with everyday people about substance use and misuse to have a sense of how they talk and think about it as evidence in their discourse, and so I applied what I knew from that data set to these advertisements to try and help this agency think about, evaluate this proposal, so what in this proposal matched with some of the problematic frames or ways of explaining substance use we uncovered in this qualitative research, and what alignment there might be, and if there is alignment, perhaps that suggests that these advertisements could be interpreted in the way that the state agency wanted them to, or maybe they wouldn't, so this is an example of thinking about and using linguistics in knowing how to interpret and even do discourse analysis and think about what's relevant, being able to talk to someone about how language is a part of interpretation of information and language as a cue that touches off interpretation, and there's a little bit of teaching woven in there, so I know how to do that, but I have to walk somebody else through it, and the way I went about that was, you know, writing up, teaching, excuse me, creating or planning for the conversation as if it was a lesson, so I did an intro where I, you know, taught them a little bit about what I was looking for and how we were going to look at a sample piece of one of these advertisements, so I had already annotated the piece I wanted them to look at. I walked them through it line by line in the way that discourse analysts think about pieces of language, and then had a discussion about it, so yeah. Cool. So I'm very curious about, do people, do they get it? Do they buy your linguistic perspective? Do they give you any pushback, or do they, how do you find people respond to a linguistic perspective? Do you find that they misunderstand or make assumptions about your approach? Well, in this specific case, in the example I just talked about, I did not get any pushback, but that is because, and there are a couple of reasons why that's true, that I've talked to before, that Frameworks has worked with before, so they have an understanding of what we do and why and how we do it. And what I think is really important, though, is that this is a group that was, and is, very aware of the fact that just because they say something, meaning just because they put together a message and put it out into the world, and they know that they have communicative intentions in putting that message into the world, but they know that their messages are not automatically interpreted the same way they intend them as everyone else. And so that is a fundamental premise of, you know, the, one of the brands of sociolinguistics that you and Anna, we like, is thinking about this notion of different conversational styles and backgrounds and processes of interpretation. And this is one view of framing and thinking about discourse, right? So I was talking to a group that shares that in common with me. How did they get there? Was that you? Did you get them there? No, they came to this interaction already there. So with the kinds of organizations and projects Frameworks does, a lot of the time people kind of show up knocking at our door because they know they have a communications problem. And when I say they know they have a communications problem, that kind of shows up in multiple ways. They're trying to advocate for something and they're just not getting traction or they, you know, actually go out and talk to people and say one thing and they get something else back and they're like, how did this? Or like, I said potato and you heard cheeseburger, right? I think linguists, I mean, we can relate to this. When we talk about linguistics, we sometimes get asked questions that indicate that people aren't understanding what we do and why we do it. I think we could use sometimes some framing help as a field. I agree. I agree. And you know, I am, I'll go ahead and say fortunate in this work that I do that being a linguist is something that the organization we work for understands. So I'm not the first linguist to work there. So there's that kind of prior text already. And so there is that. But I think in my day-to-day interactions with the clients that we have, I don't go into all of those interactions saying I'm a linguist. In fact, frankly, I fly under the radar in that respect a lot of the time. That's not to say that what I'm doing in those interactions isn't linguistics and linguistic analysis and thinking. It absolutely is. But I don't necessarily need to tell people that sometimes I do. Sometimes I do. One of the times that I do is when it's a scenario where someone doesn't buy into the approach that Frameworks takes with its work. And that scenario looks a little something like this generally, where the organization knows they're having a impact problem. They're not getting the impact or the level of fundraising dollars or the click response. Like they're not getting the impact that they want. And they want to think about messaging in the sense that they want to think about the content that they're putting out into the world. But they don't necessarily see that what makes a message as a piece of language, I guess all messages as pieces of language can be interpretable, but they don't get that crucial part that pieces of language aren't interpreted in the same way all the time. And so don't see that they can't get to the important part of our work that interpretation can lead to impact. And so I identify myself as a linguist in conversations where I am focusing on the language, linguistic choices that are being made. And there's resistance saying, why are you belaboring this point? Or we... Just give us the magic word. Right. Right. Or, you know, but these messages that we have, we, we, you know, ran them by 25 people or we've used them in the past and kind of seeing messages as this static thing, but you have to, there, there are choices one makes to, I don't know, bring ideas to life. And there are many ways you can do that. This is why I'm here to think about these linguistic choices. And if you're still pushing back, I say, look, I'm a linguist. I think of nothing but language. Language is a system and the choices you make matter. And I study this. This is what we do. This is what we're doing. And within that frame, then it becomes clear that I'm not going to let the language thing go. It's almost like it's your profession. Almost, you know. I keep trying to, I keep trying to get locutionary act, illocutionary force and perlocutionary effect in. I haven't managed to do it in an effective way. I have used those words on more than one occasion. I received a C. It was just, yeah. I'm going to find a way. I'm going to, I've got a campaign. Well, okay. So you talked about, you're giving us a little glimpse, but I wonder maybe people will be wondering, well, what kinds of people does frameworks tend to work with? What kinds of communicators? And do you think that shapes the work or informs the work? Yes, absolutely. So if we think back to how Frameworks Guards started, the first big projects and the first word of business was to work with scientists in the child development realm, talk about their research. They're like neuroscience on babies. Talk about that with child welfare advocates. And the understanding was that I'm a scientist, I'm in my lab, I send kids, and look, I'm not, you'll see all of the ways in which I am not a developmental science professional in the way I'm about to talk about this, that I put kids in with those caps, with the neurons, right? They're in the lab doing that kind of thing. And when you do that, you know, in intimate detail, the biological process by which things like the brain grows, you know, these things and you know what it takes for that to happen. And, but you explain this to people as if they also had PhDs in the same subject you do, and you go to the same conferences, and you have similar kinds of experiments in your labs. You can't talk to everyone about your work as if they were a member of that professional field, if they were in that in group. Now, why can't you do that? Because not everyone has not only that experience, but all of the things, the different types of literacy, if you will, that come with having this shared experience. You don't have the same schemas, you don't have the same ways of explaining things. And in realizing that talking to everyone as if they were also in the lab with them was not going to help more people or help the most people understand what they were learning that was groundbreaking about how children develop, and how environmental influences affect the development process, meaning how things out there in the world, relationships, experiences, good and bad, nutrition, access to healthcare, education, how all of those environmental factors impact really the way that neuron A connects to neuron B connects to neuron C. Those environmental influences impact that process, neurons connecting and staying connected so that the brain can grow. And they wanted advocates in the child welfare arena to know the extent to which all of these environmental factors impact the way that the brain grows. Because if those advocates knew this, they could make a really strong science-based case for why experiences and influences in young people's lives matter, and why things like preventing child abuse is so important. This might seem obvious to you, but it's not just because we want to do the right thing. Of course we do. It's not just because violence is taboo, and it is for good reason. But it's because that is an example of a experience that can damage a brain that's developing. And that, of course, leads to other consequences. So scientists knew this. They wanted advocates to know it too, so that they can advocate better. But those advocates weren't in the lab, and they didn't share the same ways of talking about this. So how can the scientists be understood by the folks who weren't in the lab? Enter frameworks. Very dramatic. Yes. To help scientists find ways to talk about everything they were learning with an advocacy community who could really use it. So I give you that example of all the drama to say that a lot of the projects and clients that Frameworks has begin with this same kind of story, where there's a group here on one side that knows something really great and amazing, and oftentimes science based about a social issue like substance use disorders, substance misuse, environmental health, public health, climate change. They know so much about the science behind this, and there are people who are working to fight and address global warming. There are people who are working to expand treatment and prevention options for substance use and misuse disorders, and they could really use these updates in science. But again, they're not in the lab, and the people in the lab are not always outside of the lab, so someone needs to help these groups talk to each other, and that's the kind of thing that Frameworks does. Wow. Beautifully done. Thank you. Now I'm going to put you on the spot because I can't help but hear this communications challenge that you're presenting as very similar to what we scientists, we linguists possess. So what do you see, you know, looking at the world as you see it, through your professional practice, what do you see that linguists learn in their labs that people could really use? What problems can we really help people to solve? I think that, and this might not be a direct answer to your question, but I think that the communication problem that linguists have, or one of them, when we try and talk about ourselves, is you say, I'm a linguist, and someone says, oh, how many languages do you speak? And that, and that, you know, it's a tricky question because sometimes you do speak multiple languages, but what is, I think, and the way I explain this, really relevant, is that linguists don't learn languages just to collect them all, you know, just so they can sit in armchairs and compare, you know, how many words for sparkling water they know, right? That's not the point. The point is, we believe that language is a biological ability in a system that lives in the mind, and languages, individual language systems, are a way to compare and document how that biological ability functions. And sociolinguists are interested in how this biological ability and these systems impact social relationships. And so languages and language systems and discourse, it's data to understand relationships. And I think that one of the things that isn't, for sociolinguists, and so one of the things that isn't seen for other linguists too, but one of the things that isn't seen about linguistics is that it's an analytical tool for understanding relationships and how knowledge and ideas can be organized. And if that is really what your discipline is all about, then there are all kinds of social issues and ideas and things that you can contribute to because you have another way to look at how social life works and can be influenced. And everybody wants to get into the social life game. That's what technology is all about. That's what healthcare is all about. That's what everything is really about. That's what education is all about, right? So linguists have something to say about pretty much everything that has ever happened because of looking at language as a system and a behavior that human beings and other primates engage in. I love it. I've got a catchphrase now. Linguists, we have something to say about everything that has ever happened. That's our tagline. I love it. So I want to jump a little bit to the work that you do teaching in a business school. How do you understand that as being related or what draws you to that work? What's that all about? Yeah, well, I can actually credit you with getting me into business. I only asked. I was just fishing for a compliment. As a social space. But in a nutshell, I came to business schools because I was interested in institutions and how language is a part of the relationships that happen inside of institutions. And so I institutional discourses, this whole field within sociolinguistics and discourse analysis and whatnot. So that's what I was interested in. And a business school was a real life institution of higher education where you could look at all kinds of things, power structures and identity construction and professionalization. And so it was interesting to me as a research site. And you helped me get in that door as a place to do research. And I'm eternally grateful. But now I have my dissertation is in the past. I'm just a full blown doctor professor now. And what I do, so I teach a research methods class. And what most of my students don't realize is that they're being taught to be little, not little, but because they're adults, but taught to be and use the tools of discourse analysis to understand what's going on in their workplaces. And so I bring sociolinguistics and discourse analysis in, in the types of methods that I teach them to use. So they, you know, have to do a lot of interviews for my class. A lot of what they hear about and think about as training to do those interviews is actually, you know, sociolinguistic interviewing stuff. Cause that's the way I learned to do interviews. Right. So I'm thinking about what you do with that recorded and transcribed data, you know, taking a linguist approach to this and thinking about how language is a part of how people accomplish their goals in the workplace. That's a linguist way of seeing workplace interaction. So I get to pull all of that into my teaching and time in the business school. And so, again, a lot of the time, you know, my life as a linguist is, it's slightly below the radar because they don't go out and say, you're learning linguistics things. And maybe I, you know, maybe for interested parties, I said, well, you know, this is where this came from and, you know, but how do you think it benefits them having this approach? You know, you, you, because of your research, you were able to see when they weren't being taught by a, by a linguist. How do you think it's different? I think it's different because I I really drive home the fact, or I try to drive home the fact that, that the way, the way that they behave or that anyone behaves in the workplace isn't just happenstance or or just, just take for granted that this is just what's happening. I really want them to understand that every interaction is interesting and that you can, especially because this is a group of students who want to be leaders or that some of them are leaders. They want, they're very interested in their power. And I don't necessarily mean that in a, that can sometimes have a negative connotation, but they are interested in their relationships with other people and how they accomplish their goals and how they get other people to see the same goals that they do. And so the way that you behave in interactions, if that's your interest, it's not, it, you don't have the luxury of not being able to think about it because that, the way that you. Especially leaders. Right. It's the only, it's that, that's the time when if leadership is your goal, that's the time it happens. So you have to pay attention and think about what is going on in interactions. And this is something that you can reflect on and think about the multiple choices, language choices, body positioning choices, the comparisons that you make, the metaphors you use, the, the way you, you cue humor, right? All of these things are choices that you can think about if you can take a step back and look at an interaction and identify when and how you did all of these things. And that language, the, the linguistic choices that you make, what comes out of your mouth and how it comes out and how that's interpreted and perceived is how you do this activity of power and leadership. Right. So I like to talk about that with people. Of course, I don't necessarily get to, I don't talk about language all of the time in the same way I'm talking about it now. I have to talk about other stuff. There's other stuff? But you, maybe you can tell by my, uh, uh, uh, the, the sound, how you're interpreting cues in my voice and the way that I'm moving my hands and how fast I'm talking that I'm excited about, about what I get to do and about language and whatnot. I don't know if I answered the question. I, I was asking, you know, how you show up as a linguist in, in the business school teaching. And I want to just, we have some, some people joining us live. I want to encourage you, if you have questions to, to please chime in. Um, uh, I was saying to McKenzie, uh, I was recently talking to a, uh, uh, blogger at Zen desk. They are, um, generating, she's going to be generating a series on collaboration in the workplace. And we, I was pulling out our, um, our notes from when we were doing ethnography back in the day in the business school and trying to show her that, you know, collaboration isn't just, um, you know, the, the way the conversation began was about the, the words that we use to talk about collaboration. So, you know, um, she was pointing to, uh, like the choice of touch base as a way to, to frame, um, an interaction that might happen in the workplace and recognizing that that has, um, sports metaphor embedded in it and sports metaphors might bring the metaphorical entailment of competition. And maybe when we're talking about collaboration, we shouldn't, uh, be priming thoughts about competition and why and how that might happen. But we began the conversation with words and my goal with the conversation was to expand it out and to say, you know, it is words and it's about gestures and all of the, the ways that you, um, use your pronouns and tell stories. And, um, we'll see how that turns out in a, in a blog post. The idea that how you do anything, like how you do leadership or how you do collaboration, all of these things are produced by myriad choices and interpretations and features. Absolutely. Absolutely. You know, this example kind of reminded me of another way that I show up as a linguist at work, which is kind of funny. Maybe I think it's funny. I, uh, sometimes kind of police myself, if you will, uh, in interaction. So, um, I, what, you know, sometimes in professional settings, I, uh, I do a lot of teaching and presenting in my work at frameworks and I answer questions that people ask me. And in doing that, I'm conscious of my conversational style and I'm trying to be more conscious about when I begin my, a turn at talk and do I do that at a time when, uh, when someone else is still like, do I overlap with people and how do they interpret that? When I do that, I, I intend it to be cooperative. It is not always viewed that way in, in times when, uh, I think teaching, uh, meeting a workshop is a time when collaborative overlap is not an effective strategy. So, uh, in the workplace, I show up as a linguist, uh, thinking things like you have to give space to people. That's important. Um, you, you know, thinking about how topics get managed. Um, I show up as a linguist when I see conflicts come or, or mis, misunderstandings that, uh, that turn into conflict in, um, uh, meetings or other interactions and, uh, and, um, you know, thinking about, uh, when things are maybe intended as requests for information, but aren't interpreted that way. I, you know, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, you know, I think about those kinds of things, uh, in my everyday work life. Um. You make it sound like it's good to have a linguist around. I think so. So I try and show up as a linguist to, you know, get along with people. I think that's great. Yeah. I found myself kind of declaring over the course of this interview with this, this blogger that I was going to change the narratives that I tell. Uh, I realized as I was talking to her, um, that part of what I talk about as part of career linguists is I, I, when I coach people about interviews, uh, I'm uncoaching what many people bring is an instinct to talk about collaboration. I un, I uncoached them, like I coached them to undo the we, and I, uh, I stumbled into that and realized that that's kind of problematic. I'm teaching people to prepare for a professional, um, workplace that isn't the workplace that I want to play a part in creating. I actively want to create workplaces that are more collaborative. And so I have to check myself. So it was a, it was a real aha moment for me. So I, I declared that I would pay attention to that. And also that I would pay attention to telling more narratives of collaboration that, um, that's, those are, those are the stories that we need to be hearing more often. I think, I mean, collaboration is, there are so many different ways you can contribute in an interaction that might be collaborative. How does something like power function in collaboration? I don't know, but, um, it would be interesting to kind of study and, uh, think about how many, if collaboration is about sharing of, insert noun here, goals, work, product, ideas, who knows what it is, but I guess it's sharing of something. How they're, just because we're sharing doesn't mean we're, uh, collateral. It doesn't mean that we're equal. It doesn't mean we're going on parallel tracks the entire time. Um, yeah, there's a lot to know about collaboration. Sounds like this idea has legs. Yeah. Maybe there's a coauthored piece in our future. So Mackenzie, thank you so much for joining us at the campfire. If, if people want to follow up with you and make bids at collaborative research projects that they want to engage, how, how would people find you or how can they learn more about what you're up to? They can find me, uh, on LinkedIn. My name is Mackenzie Price. Uh, I'm the only Mackenzie Price linguist who works at Georgetown and frameworks that I know of. So you should be able to find me there. That's great. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. This was fun. Wonderful. All right. So the stories around the campfire series is going to be going dark for a couple of weeks. Now we're going to be starting next week. Um, we're going to be launching career camp. Uh, so next week at this time, we will be having just a Q and a session about a career camp. Uh, so if anybody is thinking about it, um, join us at this time to ask questions and learn about what career camp is and the campfire will be part of career camp then for the next six weeks or so. Uh, but we'll be coming back in the spring, but in the meantime, there's plenty of, uh, stories to catch up on. And, uh, this story will be up on career linguist.com soon enough. So thank you all for your attention and thank you Mackenzie for the gift of your story. Thank you for the, all of the gifts. Bye-bye.
