Thank you, everybody, for having me. I'm really excited to be here. Now, I want to get to know you a little bit. I'm going to start with an easy question. Raise your hand if you are a parent. Good, I'm in the right room. That is a great win. So, as she mentioned, I have two daughters of my own. One of them is here with me tonight. They are both teenagers, and I will tell you that I have found that raising teenagers has really required me to level up in my mom game. It's hardcore. Anyone else agree? Super hardcore, and I think a lot of you can relate to that. I've found that the amount of, like, strategy that needs to go into my parenting these days has gotten just so much more intense, and it's all about being proactive. However, with teenagers, you can't necessarily do all that on your schedule. It never happens when it's convenient for you, right? Totally is that. I have another question for you. Is there anyone in this room who's a teacher? Wow, we have a lot of teachers. Okay, well, I speak for all of us when I say you guys deserve a huge shout out. You have a really, really hard job, and we appreciate that. So, let's give them a round of applause. Now, the rest of you are not going to get off the hook as easily, because I'm going to ask all of you to play the role of teacher at some point tonight. So, as it was introduced, I'm the head of an online after-school program called GT School, and I'm also a founder of an in-person alternative education school that's located in Austin called Alpha. I'm super obsessed with education, and I'm really interested in the science of learning, but there's something else that I also enjoy doing, and that's playing games. So, tonight, what I want to do is we're going to combine kind of all three of those interests. So, Sloan and I are going to take you back to Hasbro heaven with a classic game of Jenga. Are you ready for that? So, learning is all about building on knowledge. The education system is created to stack knowledge in your child's brain just like this Jenga tower right here. It's super important that we do that. A question for you is, raise your hand if you have a kid who likes math. Anyone? Wow, we have a lot of people who have kids that like math. That's great. Raise your hand if you have a kid who's not really so into math. We've got a few. I think there's some of you who even have multiple hands raised up based on which kid, or you might have multiple hands raised up based on a certain kid, depending on the day, right, or the moment. It happens like that. Well, we're going to use math as an example, and Sloan is going to show you how it relates to this Jenga tower. Hi, everyone. Okay, so I want you to picture this. This Jenga tower and these wooden blocks at the bottom are representing those basic concepts, like addition and subtraction, the stuff you learn in first and second grade. And then as the tower ascends, just like the grade system, you've got those more complicated concepts, like multiplication, division, fractions, algebra, slopes, circumference, precalculus, calculus, A, B, B, C, and all the way up there, where you're practically splitting atoms. It just keeps building and building and building. When it comes to math, the limit does not exist, which is great. We're maximizing our potentials and getting it all done. But are they? Because if you're building a tower this tall, it cannot afford to have any structural errors, none whatsoever. So if you think about a Jenga game, you know that when you take a wooden block out, or a math concept for your child, the tower can get a little bit wobbly. Get sick for a few days? There's a gap. Take a family vacation? There's another gap. Not quite be clear on a concept that your teacher has taught in class that day? Take out some more gaps. Now, this isn't like the end of the world. Your child's tower might be a little bit wobbly, but it's still standing, right? Now, hear me out. What if there were an 18-month gap? Unfortunately, this was not a hypothetical. The entrance of COVID in early 2020 and the cacophony of digital and educational chaos that ensued absolutely took a hammer towards this tower. Now, as we swerve into 2023, we mostly think COVID's kind of in our rearview mirror. Unfortunately, the effects that this virus has had on our students and the education system in general have not been New Year's partied away. It is rough. There's a national assessment that's done for 4th graders and 8th graders in two subjects, math and reading. It's called the Nation's Report Card. Are any of you familiar with it? Have you heard about it? Well, it made a lot of headlines this past fall in the news because they released the results from the first assessment that's been done since COVID. It happened in 2022, and the results were terrible. We had the largest plummet in scores in 50 years. The average student lost as much as 20 to 50% of typical learning in two years. Now, we all remember those early months in 2020, our extended spring break. How was that? Pretty amazing? It was filled with months that really for a lot of students dragged on to close to a year, maybe a little bit more, full of Zoom discussions, lots of missed class time, substitute teachers. It was, in short, what's that really scholastic word? Brutal. It was absolutely brutal. We were thrilled when our kids got back into school. Even our kids had like a renewed appreciation for being in the building. Now, some of you may have looked at that entrance back into school and said, hey, our schools did a pretty good job of managing that chaos. Raise your hand if you think your schools did a good job managing the COVID experience. All right? Now, raise your hand if you think they didn't do a good job. Anyone willing to say that? Don't say it if one of your teachers is in the room. It may have even felt like your kids kind of got more back to normal by the time that they were back in school. Unfortunately, that was not the case when it came to the learning that was going on. There's a state and national assessment. It's done through the NWEA. It came out in 2022. What they found was that students in seventh and eighth grade recovered almost none of the learning that they lost. In fact, eighth graders fell even further behind in math this year. Now, those are alarming statistics because it shows that the nationwide efforts to go into recovery, a lot of money, a lot of time, have basically been unsuccessful. Here's a student who's going to tell us a little bit more about how that happened. There was a lot of lost learning in COVID. Right now, in my math class, we're working on a topic. It's more advanced trig. A lot of trig is based on topics you learn in your first year of geometry. That was the year that I lost, or part of the year that I lost to COVID. There's topics that we never reached that a lot of kids are struggling on right now in my class because they don't understand it as well as we should because we have to just move past it to keep going and to keep on track of where we're supposed to be. I want you to look at the data on this graph here. This is a sixth grade class in Austin, Texas that took a math assessment in November of 2022. I want you to just see how wide the range is here. There are students in sixth grade who have the math capabilities of a kindergartner all the way up to sophomore level. Now, we've always had a range in a class. That's very typical, but it has gotten even bigger in the last couple of years. Those of you who are teachers, said you're teachers, you can probably relate to this in your classrooms. You've seen this, but I want the rest of you to put yourselves in a teacher's shoes and figure out what you would do. You have one student who said, hey, I had tutoring at home during COVID. My parents were on me, and I'm way ahead. Then you've got another student who says, I've honestly been pretty checked out the last couple of years, and they're falling behind. Now, if you were the teacher teaching this class, what lesson plan would you give to these students? It's a tough one. There are more students who are outside the range of this sixth grade class than are in it. As a teacher, you basically have no choice but to continue dishing out lessons that cater to the middle. There's a guy named Benjamin Bloom. He was an educational psychologist who figured out this fatal flaw in the education system 40 years ago. It's called the two-sigma problem. Basically, what he found is that the average student who was tutored one-on-one with mastery learning was able to perform two-sigma. Did I lose anyone on math there when I just said this? Two standard deviations better than the kid in a normal class with one teacher and about 30 students. You can see here that a kid who had one-on-one tutoring was better than 98% of the control class in a normal classroom. Now, I think we all would agree if every single kid had a tutor, it would be fantastic, absolutely amazing. But that is not feasible in our traditional system. It just doesn't work. So that means that in any class, you've got some kids who are bored because they already know what's being taught. You've got other kids who are struggling to keep up, and barely one in five is actually getting the lesson that they need on that day. You may have a kid who's bored, or do you have a kid who's struggling? Maybe you have a kid who's getting good grades, but they just seem kind of like just going through the motions. It's like there's not a real passion there. You could have kids who are getting dysfunctional study habits and work habits that are going on. I think even more alarming, and something that is such a big deal with what happened out of COVID, is the emotional health issues that are going on. Are you dealing with a kid who's got anxiety, or who's feeling depressed, or a sense of just being overwhelmed? Unfortunately, I talk to parents all the time who are experiencing these types of issues with their kids. They also complain about it feels like their kids are having their potential wasted. Their kids have become resigned to just being like average. It's fine. I even hear parents who say, I mean, what more can we do? This is just kind of what it is. And they're concerned that kids are falling behind. Do you know there are twelfth graders graduating that have as much knowledge as a seventh grader? That is totally shocking, but it's not actually that surprising. Because when you think about it, if you take the foundation out of this learning tower that's happened with one to two years of learning loss, I think you might know these guys. You know what they're going to say. Anyone recognize them? Our friends Kesha and Pitbull, as they say, and I need you guys to help me out here. It's going down. I'm yelling timber. Hey, you don't have to be embarrassed for me with my singing. My daughter is going to carry all of that embarrassment with her instead. So don't worry about it. But when schools are trying to take these advanced math concepts and float over a fallen foundation, what else do we expect to happen? Schools simply are not able to go back subject by subject, student by student, and find all of the individual gaps in learning that a student has and then go fix them. It's just not that kind of system. They're pushed forward from grade to grade, and that is understandable. It's not a mastery-based movement. It's a calendar-based movement. Teachers are doing the best that they can with the students that they've been given. The problem is students aren't necessarily where they're supposed to be when they hit that teacher's grade. But guess what? You've got to move them through the system. Now, there might be some of you who are saying, ooh, boy, those National Report Card kids have it bad, or that list looks like it's pretty bad. But my kid, which, let's be honest, that's all we really care about, right, is our own kids, is doing fine. My school says that my kid's doing fine. My kid's even getting A's. But one thing that we've learned is just like we can't always trust every single thing the media has reported to us, we can't necessarily trust our schools to accurately diagnose this issue. They're kind of in denial about this educational problem, and that's partly because they just don't have the ability to fix it. So maybe you have a kid who's at grade level and things are going well. But again, at grade level could mean that you've got third graders that are doing as well as your junior, right? You could be in that situation. Maybe your kid is like in the 90th percentile and you think that's great, but when you have to remember the entire average has gone down, that's no longer what it used to be, right? Now, here's the thing. There's usually a wake-up call that happens. I know that as parents, it's not like we want to dig around for problems. Let's go figure out what our kid doesn't know. Things might be going well, but there's a wake-up call, and it usually comes in this form. One of these multiletter things, what are they? They're the standardized tests that you usually only run into if you're applying for private middle school or private high school or your kid is getting in high school and they're getting on the college track. The problem is that by the time you see that score that's not great, it's often too late. Just like breast cancer screening, early detection is better. You don't want to wait until you see the problem. I have a junior who goes to a ritzy private school in Austin, and he's had straight A's his entire school career. He took his ACT and he did not do well, so he came to us trying to figure out what do I do. He's freaking out because he's an A student who did not expect to do the way that he did on one of his tests. I talked about how having teenagers requires us to be really strategic and proactive. This is the time that we need to do that. It is time for us to move forward. I've given you a lot of doomsday information and data and said there could be something wrong under the hood with your kid, but I want to tell you that there's good news. There are absolutely ways to fix this. First of all, you need to figure out where is your child? What are they missing? Then you can know the scale of the problem. Again, don't wait until you're under the pressure of that SAT that's coming up or the ACT. Figure out exactly where their kid is. Then you can figure out what are they missing? What are those concepts that they don't have a firm grasp on? Then you can figure out how to fix it. Now, all of you are part of a volunteer organization. Hopefully, you're not dragging your kids with you to every service appointment that you have. Maybe some, but not all. I want you to remember that your kid and you are on the same team. It's really important to get buy-in from your child to go and do this. You might have a kid who says, hey, I'm not interested in going and working on this right now, either because they're not really having issues, they haven't had that wake-up call yet, or they might already be so disinterested or frustrated that they just don't even want to deal with it. But I'm telling you, this will catch up with them. So it's really important to be proactive and help your kid understand why it's important. You can use the Jenga analogy as a great way to help them understand where this can catch up. Then, the other great news, there's a lot of ways to get fixed. We've already talked about how tutors are actually very effective, and they're there. There are numerous after-school programs that are affordable and also effective at helping our kids, and I love online apps. Online apps have the benefit of a tutor by giving a one-on-one interaction with a student. They move at the student's pace. They're adaptive, and they are very focused at helping the kid figure out where their holes are and how to fix them. At GT School, we've tackled this problem by creating an assessment that goes in and laser pinpoints, here's exactly the challenges that your kid's at, here's the holes that they're missing, here's those Jenga blocks that we need to get, diagnoses how to fix them, and puts together an action plan. And guess what? It's got to be quick, and it's got to be relatively easy, right? Especially if you're one of those parents with a kid who's starting to run up against the clock. This is one of our students, Hope, and she's going to tell you a little bit more about that process. I just took my PSAT, and I got my results back, and I got a 740 out of 760 on the math section, because I went back and mastered all of my previous grade levels with GT School, and by doing that, I'm able to have a really solid foundation of everything that I should have learned in my previous grade levels, which allows me to really enjoy math and actually understand what it's asking me on the test, so I'm having a lot more fun in math and seeing a lot better results. So, like I said, there were a lot of problems that have happened as a result of COVID. We've had a lot of learning issues. It's been a tough place to be in school for the teachers that are working tirelessly for your kids and for the kids themselves, but there is absolutely a way to get your kids back on top. Just be proactive. Love them. I know that you're a dedicated group of parents by the fact that you're here in this room, so there are a lot of things that you can do. I appreciate you having me. Thank you very much. Thank you, Sloane. We probably have two or three minutes, just if there are any quick questions that anyone has. Yeah, sure. So, my daughter just took the IC and she didn't do great. So, do you take those scores and then do you use that as an assessment to how we can build a program? Is it just math or does it encompass other subjects? So, when we talk about those standardized tests, the wake-up calls, they will do a good job of telling you where you're at, but what they don't do is they don't tell you what are the issues. Like, how do you go fix it? And so, GT School, we came up with a diagnostic that tells you exactly where you're at and then tells you literally here's exactly the points. Your child is missing some sixth grade concepts. How are you going to do algebra well if your fractions are like a little shaky, right? And so, they're going to say, hey, we're missing a couple of sixth grade concepts. There's a few seventh grade concepts you're missing. Oops, there's a lot of eighth grade concepts you're missing. Remember the SAT, the ACT, a lot of those tests, it's not like they're not testing people on calculus, right? They're kind of testing people on some basic math, but I don't know about you, I had this situation. I was generally a great student. Math was never like my super strong suit, but I did well. I got good grades. And then I hit this point where suddenly it was like, I don't understand this. And I remember going into my teacher after a test and I was like, why were there boats in this? I studied trains and now you're talking about water. What I didn't understand was that I didn't really have the concepts down, so it was very hard for me to translate because I didn't understand that. So, the standardized test that your child took gives a great explanation, again, knowing the scale of the problem, but then you've got to go and figure out how to do that. And that's one of the things that the GT school has done is very quickly pinpoint that. Anyone else? So I'm curious, have any of the standardized testing agencies or colleges taken that into account? Like the fact that everybody's averages are a lot lower in the baseline, like is their baseline the same pre-pandemic or did they actually adjust it for what happened? Yeah, well, the baseline of some of the tests are the same. You have to understand on like the test for college admissions, you know, the way they've kind of solved that so far is a lot of colleges have gone test optional, but that's going to change very quickly. There's already some schools that are relinquishing that optional thing, and I think most of them have announced by like 2025 that they're planning to do that. You take things like the MAPS test though, and let's say you've got a kid, some of you probably take the STAR test, you know, MAPS test, things like that. Well, they'll say, hey, your kid's in the 95th percentile. Problem is it's the 95th percentile of the other kids that are in that grade, and again, the entire group has gone downhill, right? It's sort of like our dress sizes, right? Like Marilyn Monroe would wear a size 14 now, but she was actually a 2. It's kind of changed. So yes, there's some inflation that's happened there, and that's one of the reasons that we often see parents who say, hey, my kid seems to be good. How about that kid who gets A's? The thing is, it's not always super objective, right? It can depend on the curve. It can depend on how other students in the class are doing. Sometimes if you're like my daughter, it can depend on how good your negotiation skills are with the teacher. You're like, just give me one more chance at this. Okay, fine. So it's there. One more question? All right. Well, thank you again for having me, and thanks for everything you guys are doing at NCL. It sounds like an awesome organization. I wish my friend had told me about it when my daughters were that age. They've missed out, but thanks a lot.
