I am so excited to have on the podcast today Mackenzie Price, who is the co-founder of 2-Hour Learning and Alpha Schools. A Stanford University graduate, Mackenzie recognized the need for education innovation early on, but it was her own daughter's complaint about school boredom back in the early days of schooling that spurred her into action. She developed what is known as the 2-Hour Learning model, enabling students to master core academics in just two hours a day, freeing up time for passion projects and life skills the rest of the day. This model debuted at Alpha School, which is a K-12 private school in Austin, Texas that Mackenzie launched in 2014. There students consistently score in the top 1-2% nationally on nationally norm-referenced standardized tests, as well as on AP exams and SATs, just incredible success happening there. And the success of Alpha has led to rapid expansion, with campuses now in Miami and Brownsville, Texas, and additional locations opening this year. I know Mackenzie said that the goal is 25 schools in 2025, so just so exciting to see the growth there. Mackenzie hosts the Future of Education podcast, where she explores the role of AI in education and helps students align passions with skills for success. Mackenzie Price, welcome to the Liberated podcast. Well, Keri, thanks for having me. That was such a mouthful, but I think if we summarize it all in just one little thing, which is when students love school, they are capable of doing so many incredible things. And that's what I think every day I wake up thinking, like, how can we make students love school so that they can really unlock their potential? Yeah, and your students at Alpha School truly love school. In fact, you do surveys to see just how much they love it. And especially, you know, you're finding that, what is it, over 90% love school, love going to school. And some of them are even saying they prefer to go to school than to go on vacation. That's how much they love being there. They do. We are so student first at our schools that we survey them all the time to make sure, yes, do you love school? Yes or no. Would you rather go to school or go on vacation? And that second question really came up very organically because when I first started the school, my daughters were in third grade and first grade. And I remember thinking like, oh, now that we're not beholden to attendance policies and we've got the ability to be more flexible, you know, let's go visit my family in Colorado for the month of February. And I remember my girls basically saying to me like, mom, get us back to school. We want to be in school. We want to be doing all the things we're doing, not just, you know, skiing and enjoying the winter in Colorado. And it's become one of those things where if you ask a lot of our families, especially those that have like younger students, they'll say a very common thing that happens is on Friday afternoon, they come to pick their kids up and the kid's crying and they're like, what happened? What's going on? They're like, why can't we have school on Saturdays? We want to go to school on the weekend. And then for older kids, what we've realized is you probably remember Carrie, like, you know, it's that last day before the holiday, you know, winter break and you're like, oh, we could probably catch a flight if we leave in the morning on Friday instead of the afternoon. And we've kind of learned like you do not skip out of school early because the kids are like, no, we want to be there. And we really feel like that is such an important basis for all of the other incredible things that our students do. Because we have really worked hard to create that environment where kids have such a feeling of ownership and passion and agency about learning that, you know, they love being at school. Yeah, it's so true. It's really a message that I hope more and more parents hear because the education innovators that I interview on this podcast and my articles, you know, that's sort of a common theme is that the students just love being at these innovative schools, micro schools and learning pods and some of the emerging schooling models like Alpha School. And they don't want to go on vacation. And they cry during snow days, you know, I'm up here in New England and, you know, we used to jump up and down for joy when we had a snow day and school was canceled. Oh, I sure did. And the schools in your program and the students in your program and others like it, they really want to be there. And it's just, you know, such a powerful message that I hope, again, more and more parents and teachers realize is possible in education that that joy and that drive to kind of go to school and be there can be really, you know, powerful. Well, we found, you know, I think 90% of what creates a great learner is having a motivated student. And, you know, in order to be motivated, you do need to be enjoying what you're doing. And unfortunately, the system that we've had in the last couple of hundred years is just not one that really instills this vibrancy or this idea that like, wow, school is this fun career that kids get the opportunity to take on for 12 years of their life. And that's one thing I do think it's great. I think, you know, teachers work so, so hard to do the very best they can in that environment. But in a lot of ways, I think we've all been sort of just numbed to the idea that school is something you kind of just tolerate and get through. And when we break through that paradigm, and especially when I meet new families who are considering our schools, they're like, wait, you're telling me there really is a world where I'm not fighting to get my kid out the door each morning, you know, and doing that. That's a lightbulb moment that then people go, we should expect more from our educational institutions. And I think there's a lot of schools that are really plugging into that idea. And it's making a huge difference. So Mackenzie, I'd love to hear a little bit more about your origin story, because you had enrolled your kids in public schools, and that was the route you were going to take, and then quickly realized you had to build something new and different. So I wonder if you could share a little bit of that. Well, you know, I was one of those kids who was very good at school growing up, I knew how to get A's, I knew how to make the teachers generally pretty happy with me, although I was also one of those kids who would sometimes challenge them a little bit. But I never enjoyed school. And I remember when I finally graduated college, I literally tapped the top of my head and said, I'm done, I'm over, I'm never walking into a school again. But when it was time for my girls to go to school, my husband and I had both gone to public school through high school, and turned out well. And so we said, you know, we're going to go, we are very fortunate to live in a school district that's considered one of the very best in Texas. But very quickly, I just found that I and my daughter were kind of bumping our heads against this lack of ability to really personalize education for where she was. And that started out, you know, initially with things like, hey, you know, she already knows how to read, you know, so does she really need to be recognizing the alphabet, you know, and the teachers, bless them, you know, would say, well, you know, we've got 20 plus students in our class, and some of them don't know their letters, and I kind of need some time to get to where they are. But then even in the best of circumstance, it would be like, okay, let's put kids in little groups, you know, of three or four per, and then they can kind of work a little more at their pace. But ultimately, it's still a time based system. And that all kind of culminated in second grade for my oldest daughter, my younger one was in kindergarten, and my daughter and I were having a conversation. And she said, oh, I don't want to go to school tomorrow. And I said, what do you mean you love school? And she looked at me and she said, school is just so boring. And I just had this moment of like, oh, my goodness, they've taken a kid who's like tailor made to want to be like a good little student. And they've wiped that passion from her. And I spoke to the principal of our school who had become a friend of mine at that point, phenomenal administrator. And she kind of looked at me and she's like, Mackenzie, I totally understand your frustrations. But this is like trying to steer the Titanic, it just can't be done. And for me, that was my cue that I needed to exit stage left and find something else. It also for me wasn't about a private school versus a public school. It was really about the model of education. You know, this traditional teacher in front of a classroom, time based model, just it doesn't work. In fact, there's been so much research that shows that it's the worst way for students to learn. And so way back in 2014, because I didn't see anything else that was really matching what I was hoping for for my children, we said we'd started out and carry, you know, from the homeschool world, it does not take all day sitting in class to be able to do well in your academics. So initially, I knew that we could do our academics in the morning. And then I knew that what I really wanted my kids to be prepared for, was getting out in the real world and being successful, which means developing life skills. And most importantly, finding that intersection of their passions and their talents, instead of having to wait until you maybe graduate from college and get into a job and then go, gosh, I don't even know if I like this thing that I've been working towards for years. And so that all started. And it's been such an incredibly fun journey. My oldest daughter is now a freshman in college, she graduated from Alpha last year. And then we've got hundreds of students through a lot of different variations of our model that are enjoying it. And it's just been the greatest privilege to watch these kids really, again, just unlock their potential when they when they're given back time in their day to explore these interests that they have. And they're held to high standards while having really high support. That's where the magic happens. I love that. Yeah. And you started Alpha School, I believe, as a home-based micro school, not that many students. And of course, now, you know, over a decade later, lots of success and growth there. I wonder if you can talk a little bit, Mackenzie, about outcomes. You mentioned your daughter, who's now at college. You focus a lot on measuring success and in traditional ways. And I wonder if you could talk a little bit about that. You don't shy away, for example, from standardized testing that I think a lot of innovative models do. And I wonder if you could talk about, you know, why we can have personalization and innovation with standardized testing, that they don't have to be separate from each other. I absolutely love this question because I think standardized testing in a traditional school model is one of the worst things ever. Right. It's miserable. It's stressful. Teachers spend all year trying to teach the test. Kids get stressed out about it. And then what happens is these students will have to spend, you know, two or three days testing and nothing changes for that student based on the result of that exam. The school or the district gets a report card that says your kids are doing this, but nothing changes. And a lot of alternative education models have said, OK, we're getting rid of all the testing requirements. We don't do that. We're going to focus on real world application and project based things and all that. And that's all great. However, I am a huge believer that in order to be a great critical thinker, it's critical that you have knowledge in your brain upon which to draw from. And a lot of that knowledge is basic academic knowledge that we need to have in math and science and reading and language. And the best way to get that is to be able to kind of, you know, learn all that information. And in our model, the standardized testing is an incredible tool because what we do is we take the information that comes from a test and we view it as simply feedback, like understanding what does a child know, what don't they know? And in those places where they have what we call knowledge gaps, we're able to take those knowledge gaps and we go and we plug them back into our AI system and we go fill those holes. So our students, I was just having a conversation with a bunch of our fifth and sixth graders today because we did our NWEA map testing two weeks ago. And these fifth and sixth grade students were like, oh, yeah, I got my math test results back and it turns out I've got some holes in these areas. And so now I'm going back and I'm filling those holes. And the big thing that we have found is that the fastest way forward is often to go backwards, right? It's a lot easier to do algebra if you know your fractions. It's way easier to understand fractions if your multiplication table is super, you know, well knowledgeable, you know, and that's that's kind of the key. And so we've been able to take this testing framework and turn it into this really helpful tool that allows us to further personalize each and every single student's education journey. I also will say in this, you know, I don't want to sound too critical, but, you know, schools today don't really know how to teach kids very well anymore. And I think a lot of times they say, well, then, you know what, let's just throw that out. And unfortunately, I do see some alternative education models that, you know, while they do focus on project based things and all that, their kids aren't really great at some of the base academic stuff. And I think that is that's not OK. I think we need to be able to provide academic rigor. And again, in our situation, we can do it in such a short period of time where the kids go through that two hours of, you know, focus on this and are able to crush their SAT scores and do well on their assessments or whatever and still have the rest of the day to go do all those really cool team based, project based workshops where they are getting way more time to socialize and connect with each other and our guides than a traditional school environment offers. Yeah. And I know that you found and you're really sort of bullish about this, too, that that you don't sort of accept mediocrity. You really feel like every child can be performing at a high level and kind of absolutely level. I know your your Brownsville location serves more of a lower income student body. A lot of students there may be coming in sort of below, quote unquote, grade level. And yet again, the mastery based model is really helping them improve and excel. It is. And it's not just to be clear, it's not just low income students or students who have gone to schools. We get students who come from some of the ritziest private schools in the country and they show up to our model and they have a glaring number of academic holes. Unfortunately, that's just the state of the world that we're in right now is standards have been lowered in the last several years and we haven't been able to meet students where they are. And so unlike a lot of private schools, we don't base our admissions off of how a student has tested or what their grades are. What we really look for with students is coachability. Do they have the ability to become growth minded students? And are they willing to take feedback? And so as a result, we get students who regularly come into our schools and they'll be behind and sometimes many grade levels behind. But when you give personalized education, you match a student's level with the correct pace that they need to learn. It's like the sky is the limit. And so we don't get intimidated by a kid who comes into us in the 10th percentile because we know we can get that kid up to grade level. And maybe not every kid is going to go be an astrophysics major at MIT. But I believe every kid does have the ability to be 90th percentile or above in eighth grade science. And again, when we're able to get that basic knowledge into kids' brains, it equips them to do so many other things. And then when they are doing these afternoon workshops where, for example, our fifth and sixth grade students are running a food truck this year and they're able to connect the financial literacy skills they're learning from managing this food truck business with the math that they're doing in the morning. And that, I think, is where the magic really happens is let's give kids the opportunity to take the academic knowledge and then connect it with something out in the real world. Yeah, and you're also serving neurodivergent students in your program as well. You know, so you have a wide variety of sort of learning abilities and learning styles. I wonder if you can talk a little bit about that. Yeah, I just spent this morning, as a matter of fact, I spent about 30 minutes talking with one of our students who has been with us since the beginning of the school year, and she's dyslexic. And she was telling me just about how much this has been an incredible place for her to grow and develop. She loves the fact that she's got some agency and control over how she learns and in what order she learns. And afterwards, I was talking to one of her guides, that's her teacher, and I was just saying how impressed I was with this young girl's awareness of, you know, how she learns differently and then how she's been able to progress. And the guide said, if you'd have met her at the beginning of the school year, it was a different kid. It was a kid who came in feeling discouraged, frustrated, feeling like she was less than, you know, she was on the first week of school, was trying to argue why she shouldn't have to do spelling because she's dyslexic. And now in only four months, this student feels confidence and the confidence is anchored in competence, right? She's understood, hey, I do have the ability, even though my brain works differently, I still have the ability to, you know, to do well on these things. And that's a really cool thing. And then, you know, we have a lot of neurodivergent students, especially if they come in, you know, on the spectrum or with ADD or ADHD. And again, so many of those things, when you're able to meet a student where they're at and personalize their educational experience, that's helpful. And that's everything from, you know, at the beginning of the day, there's some students who need to go out and get some extra physical exercise before they sit down to do their core skills work. Or I was speaking to, you know, a student that's autistic. And one of the challenges that we do in one of the afternoon workshops is an ice bath challenge. And he was able to talk to me about how he said, gosh, you know, I have a lot of sensory processing issues and the idea of putting my whole body in an ice bath is hard. But my guide and I have been working on growth mindset and what we can do. And today I got my legs in and next week I'm going to try to put my whole body in. And, you know, those are the skills that we want kids to to be able to have. And, you know, whether a kid comes in with a learning difference or, you know, is is needs extra, needs extra development in socialization or communication techniques, or you get kids who are just insanely gifted and, you know, need to be going so much faster than a traditional classroom does. That's, again, the whole key is personalized learning. And, you know, that's what makes us special. Oh, I love it. So let's dig in a little more to this philosophy of two hour learning that you have incorporated into Alpha School and are helping to scale nationally and other schooling models as well. I know much of the day is focused on these workshops and these life skills experiences. But that two hour learning piece, what does that look like in terms of the curriculum, the tools, the A.I. assistance and so on? Yeah. You know, that's another reason that we want to be very transparent about our results is because this is a new model for education that a lot of parents are uncertain about, you know, and they get scared when they hear, wait, you're using artificial intelligence to teach. What is that? And so part of what I really try to do is is raise awareness about here's what this looks like. But, you know, in one of our schools, if you show up in the morning after their 15 minute what we call limitless launch, think Tony Robbins for kids, where they do something really fun, some sort of team based exercise together that helps them kind of get clear on like, OK, these are some goals that I'm going to work on for the day. And when they're going through their day, they can draw on something that they did in that limitless launch to be able to say, OK, I can work on this. But then our students sit down and they basically are doing about two hours for our younger students. It's more like 90 minutes of concentrated time in their subject. So kindergarten through second grade, you know, that's math and reading. And then as kids go up, that becomes we incorporate science and language and social studies and history, geography, those things. And then at high school, our students are doing their advanced placement coursework, which ranges across the board. But basically, our students use what we call the Pomodoro technique. You know, that's that's a very classic type of thing. Let's do, you know, 25 minutes of focused activity, take a break, switch subjects. And what we really found, we we didn't originally call it two hour learning. We knew we could do it pretty quickly. And we saw the results of what our students were going through in that shorter period of time. We actually originally would call it two X learning, which is like, wow, our kids are learning twice as fast and we're able to measure that growth. And then we realized that the real value is that, you know, if you sit down with a student and say, hey, do you want to learn twice as fast? The kid's like, I don't know. I don't care how fast I learn. Right. Really. But if we say, hey, do you want to just spend two hours doing your academic classwork instead of, you know, five or six hours? And then they're like, yes, we will definitely do the shorter period. So that's where we kind of came up with this idea of two hour learning. So, you know, one of our commitments that we make at our schools is that our kids will learn twice as fast in only two hours a day. And there's a lot that goes into that as well, which is, for example, not having to do homework. You know, think about what a brutal experience homework is for so many families every evening. And, you know, elementary school kids, middle school kids shouldn't have to do that. Yeah. And you're leveraging a lot of some common curriculum tools, Khan Academy and Alex and some other programs, as well as your AI tutor. I wonder if you could talk more about that. Exactly. Yeah. So talking about like the actual what is involved in the two hour learning, what we've done is we've curated which apps are best for which grade levels and which subjects. Not all apps are perfect across all grade levels. And we've been able to kind of curate which third party apps are really good. We've also built some of our own apps where we've seen holes in the market. But then what we've done is we've created an AI tutor. And the AI tutor is what's really monitoring to make sure that students are learning effectively and efficiently. If you just give a student iExcel and say, hey, please go ahead and do math on this. iExcel's got a lot of great tools and it's great curriculum in terms of that, but it's easy for students to get off track. They can do what we call anti-patterns, which is like topic shopping. Or as soon as something gets hard, you know, they kind of back out of it or maybe they're not, you know, going very quickly through the material. And that's what our AI tutor is able to do. So when our students log in every morning to something called Dash, they log in, they say, OK, it's time to go to math. I'm going to work on math for this first 25 minute session. What Dash will do, it'll take them to exactly the app that's at the right level that they need, and then they're able to move through the pace. And then our AI tutor is able to watch to make sure like, OK, if a student is answering questions really quickly with a high level of accuracy, the AI tutor takes that information and says, OK, you know, this kid can go faster through the material and we can move them up. Now, alternatively, let's say the kid is answering questions very quickly, but with low levels of accuracy. The AI tutor pops up and says, hey, Kari, you know, you want to take your time and slow down a little bit, read the explanation or watch this video and do that. Or alternatively, maybe the student is struggling with answering the questions correctly because they're missing some knowledge and we need to go back and revisit a lesson from earlier that morning or a lesson from a week ago, a month ago, a year ago, two years ago. And that's kind of what we've created. So the AI tutor is not teaching the children. Right. But what it's doing is it's making sure that that learning experience is effective and personalizing it for where students are. I love it. And the AI tutor is not teaching the children and the teachers are also not teaching the children. You call your adults guides. Tell us a little about the role of adults at Alpha. We do. So first of all, the role of adults in a classroom will never, ever be anything less than critically important. Right. So we are never replacing the importance of humans in the classroom. But what we have done is we have transformed the role of the teacher so that instead of having to spend time creating lesson plans and delivering lectures and grading homework and papers, our adults are able to focus on motivational and emotional support. Because as I mentioned, motivation is 90 percent of what creates a successful learner. And I think the reason that our guides, which, you know, you could also say they're teachers, they're just not delivering academic content. What they're really doing is they're supporting students by helping them learn how to learn, how to become self-driven learners and helping motivate them. So, you know, in a situation with with a student that could look anything like, you know, our kindergarten student who gets so excited when they get a sticker when they finished a course skill and the guide knows that this particular student loves the Avengers. So they get the Avengers sticker to that, you know, eighth grade student who loves fashion and is interested in becoming a fashion designer. And the guide is able to work with that student to be able to help them develop their own fashion line, you know, and, and learn what they need to do there. That's kind of the goal. And what we found is the people who have come to work for us as guides, they love this role because they get to focus on positively impacting their students every day and getting that one-to-one connection. In fact, one of the biggest things that I notice when people come into our school, they'll see that the guides are sitting there, down there with the kids. They're not standing up at the front of the classroom, you know, kind of delivering lectures. And again, I think teachers are heroes. You know, they're, they're underpaid, they're underappreciated, and they're overworked. And what we've done is really create a different experience for those people who are willing to devote their lives to working with our young people. It must be so rewarding for your educators to have that different dynamic that why they went into education to begin with is to really have that, that meaningful impact in the lives of young people. I want to talk a little bit about the the reward for parents and families. And let's start, if we could, with your experience, because as a true entrepreneur, you had to solve a problem for your family and then brought others into the into the mold as well. So I'd love to first hear what that experience was like for you as a parent. Did your oldest daughter, for example, rediscover her enthusiasm for learning through Alpha School? And then related to that, kind of the second piece is, why are you finding other parents are attracted to Alpha School and to your model? Yeah, well, you know, there's a reason I started my own school and didn't just homeschool my kids, was that I was like, I know I am not equipped to, you know, spend all day doing education with my kids. Again, I think that people were called to that. It's an incredible talent and a gift that they have received to do this. So one of the biggest things that happened was I found who I consider to be like one of the world's best motivation and connectors. And I call him the OG. He was like the original guide who partnered up with me to go in and spend time with the students in school. And I'll never forget the first day that my girls were in that school. They got in school at the end of the day and they were lit up. They were like, we did this and we did this. Now, part of it, they did a boys versus girls lemonade war in the neighborhood, you know, and it was teaching entrepreneurship and financial literacy and teamwork and communication. And I just remember it was literally like lightning struck and my girls had been reignited in that interest and passion that they had. And that really hasn't stopped in all these years. My daughter, oldest daughter, graduated last spring. And she has told me countless times now as a freshman in college that she's like, I feel like I have this interest and passion that some of the other students she's around with don't have because they've spent so many years just checking boxes and figuring out like how to get through the system. And my younger daughter, who's a junior in high school, has has got so many cool things going on. And again, what I think is most exciting is being able to use school as a time to go find those things you're interested in, try things on and understand, like, do I like this? Am I excited about doing this and what it is? So my husband and I would ask each other every day, especially in those early years when it was a startup environment, it was hard. We were you know, we were in a house and then we had to move to another house. In fact, one of my friends who had a child at the school held school at her house for two weeks while we were waiting for a permit for our eventual commercial building. So there was a lot of stress that went on there. But my husband and I would wake up every day and just say, are our children thriving where they're at? And the answer had been yes. And that's been what is so exciting to see other parents do. And, you know, an example of that, Carrie, is that as we're expanding to other cities, I'll go to a new city and I'll talk to parents and they'll say, yeah, we're pretty happy with our school. You know, we like our kids school. They like their friends and they're happy. And then I'll start to tell them about what we do at our schools and that kids love school and that kids are learning twice as fast and only two hours a day and that they're learning life skills. And after I sort of share that reality of what our schools are doing, parents will come up to me and they're like, well, wait, you're telling me your kid actually wants to go to school. You know, I have to fight my kid to get in the car to go to school. He'll cry on Sunday night because he doesn't want to go to school on Monday. He asked when is summer break. And then when we talk about learning twice as fast, you know, I'll have parents will say, gosh, we're paying for after school tutoring. My my kid struggles in school and doesn't really like it. My kid came home and said he's dumb because he doesn't have that. Or my kid is bored, you know, stiff because he already knows all the material. And then that learning life skills are like, you know, often it actually comes to parents. They're like, I sure wish I knew how to balance a checkbook or knew what a credit score was when I was in high school. I wish I'd had an opportunity to practice socialization, right, and learn better communication. Or how about even just become a better public speaker? And I think the the families that are attracted to us are realizing like there is something kind of broken about the traditional school model. And then when they see, wow, this is something that can be better, that that goes. And I was just in Miami last week and I had dinner with a bunch of our current alpha families who, you know, we started the school in August of twenty twenty four. So there are four months into the school experience and every single one of those parents had examples how their kid has been transformed and really kind of unlocked. And that's that's exciting to hear about. It is so exciting. So tell us more, Mackenzie, about the plans for expansion and scalability. You have this bold vision of twenty five schools in twenty twenty five and you are starting to open new locations across the U.S. Could you tell us a little bit about what the future holds? Yeah. So, you know, the reason that the teacher in front of the classroom model started a couple hundred years ago was when the Industrial Revolution came along and we needed to figure out a way to educate the masses. You couldn't do the one to one tutoring. You know, think Socrates and Plato that used to be reserved for just the wealthy. That wasn't possible anymore. And so that system of teacher in front of the classroom developed out of a need to educate the masses. But here's what's really incredible is now with with AI technology and adaptive apps, we have the ability to scale and provide accessible education for the masses while delivering it in a personalized manner. So we can basically go back to those days of Plato and Socrates being able to tutor. We're just using technology to do that. And so for me, I you know, obviously I started with a vision of just helping my own girls and then that grew to a few hundred or whatever. But I think we can help millions of kids around the world with this. I believe it is a totally scalable model that again can deliver kids, you know, educational information no matter where they're at. And, you know, if you look in our country, the educational inequality is much higher than the wealth inequality in our country. And why should we be leaving so many kids behind and slash writing them off at an early stage where it's like, oh, they can't read, they can't do basic math, any of those things we can hit people. And, you know, when we think about life skills development, you know, I have a variety of different schools. Alpha is kind of our super high end Rolls Royce version experience where our kids get to do things like travel to Poland to, you know, to train Ukrainian refugee students on our two hour learning. But we also have other private schools that are at lower tuition price points. And we've been really excited to recently get approved in the charter world, which of course means free and means no tuition. And I think it's important to be able to make this model of education available to as many people as possible. So when we think about life skills, you know, if you were to put me in charge of K through 12 public education in the country tomorrow, I believe what we could do is we could incorporate personalized learning via technology into our schools. And then in the afternoon, starting at noon, we could say, hey, go out and play sports in the afternoon or go to your theater or your band or whatever arts, you know, we already have that in so many of our public schools. And the other thing we have is we have coaches, right? We have those people in our public school system that are that the debate coach or the tennis coach or the football coach who's an expert in motivating while delivering high standards. And I believe we could do that for a pretty inexpensive model, which is what makes me excited about the scale. So when you think about what I'm personally doing is I'm working on opening more of our private schools as well as expanding charter approval in states across the United States. And then I would love to be a beacon of light and inspiration for public models who would say, hey, this is the way we can do that. So hopefully we can. So, Carrie, if you can wave a magic wand and put me in charge of K through 12 education, I'd love to take it on. Well, I think one of the great things now, and I'm sure you find this too, Mackenzie, of the kind of state of American education is that it is so decentralized that there that there isn't sort of any central planning. And I think that's sort of the magic of where we're at. There's so many of these entrepreneurial parents and teachers like you who are creating new schools and spaces. I wonder if you could, as we begin to wrap up, provide some advice for other parents and teachers who might be listening, who may be dissatisfied with what they're seeing in their children's schools or in their classrooms and want to go off and build something new and different. What advice do you have for them? Yeah, well, first of all, I want to give hope to those parents who are seeing that their kid is not thriving in their school environment and know that there are other options out there. There's I think in so many cities, there's somebody doing something, you know, that is like, OK, we're connected on this. And if they don't see it like I didn't see it in my my own town, we do have more ability now to go start stuff. And one of the things that's been exciting for me to see is I've had a lot of people come to me who say, hey, I've always envisioned, you know, doing a school and I have these real strong thoughts on what life skills should be, but I didn't know how to deliver the academics right well or a private schools. We get private schools who come to us all the time and say, hey, got to be honest, our academics are not great, right? They're not good. And so we're able to use our two hour learning platform for people to start schools, you know, based on that and then have the afternoons do whatever it is that they want to do. And so I think that there is there is that now. Is it easy? No, it's not easy. But I also think as I know as a mom, for me, you know, raising my kids was, you know, my life's purpose, right? It's it's it's I think one of the very most important projects you can take on. And and so there are ways that that people can connect with this. There are so many cool new models of schooling that are coming out. And I get really excited when I talk to these education innovators who are doing something different. And the micro school movement has gotten really big. The micro school, small schools have gotten big. And so that's exciting. I personally am excited about school choice. I think it is good for public schools, despite what a lot of people will hear on that. And so if you're one of those people who's listening, who's not sure that school choice is a good thing, I encourage you to dig in and do more research about why it's actually very beneficial. It really raises the the the waters for everybody when kids are able to go to the school that's right for them. Yeah, and in Texas, where you're based, looks like school choice legislation is moving ahead. And hopefully this will be the year to pass universal school choice in Texas. And obviously you have a location in Miami as well. And Florida has had universal choice for a couple of years now. So exciting times to see the expansion of accessibility to many of these emerging schools and spaces. So Mackenzie, if my listeners and viewers want to learn more about the two hour learning model, Alpha School, follow your expansion, see if there's going to be a new program in their backyard. What's the best way for them to do that? You know, I'll tell you the best way is the power of social media has gotten really huge. So future of education is what I'm on on Instagram and Facebook and YouTube. And I will confess, I'm kind of old in the world of TikTok, so I don't really go there that much. But I think we're on TikTok as well. But what has been, I think, really helpful about future of education on those channels is it gives people an ability to kind of picture like, oh, what is school like at these schools? What are they able to do? And the other thing I'm really excited about unveiling and probably by the time this podcast is aired, it will be ready, which is a future of education website where we're going to be able to provide templates that people can copy and paste to send to their state and national legislators to say, hey, we want to see more of this type of education, personalized education and leveraging technology to deliver that, as well as being able to email their superintendents and their principals. Because, you know, there are so many parents out there. I'm sure there's parents that are listening in some small town in North Dakota, which is where I was born and grew up, who are never going to have access to one of the schools that I've created or something someone else is doing. But that doesn't mean that they should demand any less from the school that is in their community. And what I find is that individual teachers and administrators and parents and legislators, they really do want what's best for kids. It's just that the system sort of eats up all that goodwill and squashes it. And so I'm hoping that we can provide ability for grassroots efforts to take real effect and make real change. Great, so we will follow you at Future of Education and continue to see the positive impact you're having nationwide. Mackenzie Price, thank you so much for being on the Liberated podcast. Thank you for having me, Keri, and thank you for all of the incredible work you do on your podcast. It's so inspiring to get to hear about cool things in education. And I always love meeting people who are as passionate and excited about impacting young people as you.
