Welcome to Scrolling to Death. Today I have Mackenzie Price, founder of a new educational model called 2-Hour Learning. Hi Mackenzie. Hi. Nice to see you, Nicky. Thanks for having me. Nice to see you too. I'm really eager to learn about this brand new method that I learned about. And on your website, one thing that caught me, you say school is broken and we're here to fix it. So why don't we start with that? Can you tell me more about what you're saying there? Well, I think all of us relate to the experience of going to school. I went to public school all the way through high school. I was one of those kids who was really good at school. I knew how to play the school game. I knew how to get good grades, but I never liked school. I never really understood where that connection between my interests and my talents would be discovered at school. So I was one of those people who was really excited when I finally graduated from Stanford. I was like, I closed the top of my head and said, okay, I'm never going to school again. I'm never going to school again. And then I had my children. And so I have two daughters and they started at our local traditional public school. And what I found pretty quickly was a frustration with the lack of ability to personalize anything for my girls. Where that kind of culminated at was halfway through my oldest daughter's second grade year, we were having a conversation and she said, oh mom, I don't want to go to school tomorrow. And I said, what do you mean? You love school. And she said, school is so boring. And I just had this moment of like, oh my gosh, this is a kid who's like tailor made to want to be a great little student. And in two and a half years, this passion for doing that has been wiped out. And I realized at that point, it wasn't about that particular school or her teacher that she'd had that year or anything else with that. It was an issue with the model of education. And the bottom line is that since the industrial revolution, when we turned schools into more of a factory model education experience with a teacher teaching to a class of 15, 20, 25 students who are all at different levels of understanding in whatever material is in a time-based system where the teacher teaches something and moves on whether or not a child has gotten it or if that kid already understood the material when it was introduced. And that was the challenge that I saw. So 10 years ago in 2014, I decided it was time to make a change. And I started my first school with the understanding that every child deserves to get personalized learning experience where they can be engaged, where they can go at the pace and the level that's right for that child. And that's something that's not possible in our traditional teacher in front of a classroom model. Hmm. Okay. And so what you created is this two hour learning method and I'll let you tell me about it, but it basically gives students an AI tutoring program that allows them to learn and you say about to learn two times as much as an average student in two hours. Yeah. So just explain that to me a little bit more. Absolutely. Well, you know, there have been learning science research that's been been out for 40 years back in the 1980s when I was a student, you know, in elementary school, learning science from Harvard and Stanford and Oxford University has all shown that when kids get one to one mastery based tutoring, they're able to learn two, five, even 10 times faster than in a traditional teacher in front of the classroom model. And so you think about that, the idea that when a child is, is getting this one to one experience where there is someone, you know, and think back to Aristotle, you know, and, and the days when everyone had, you're not everyone, when the wealthy could have their private tutors, that is how kids learn really well. And learning science has known this forever, but it hasn't been possible when we have brought out mass education to, you know, everybody. Not everyone can, you know, we can't provide a tutor or a teacher to every single kid. However, technology has now enabled us to finally be able to do that. And so, um, I knew when I started the first school that using adaptive app technology, we can provide every single kid with their own individualized, personalized learning experience. And what that ends up doing is it creates a much more engaging experience. So instead of sitting in a classroom, looking at a teacher teaching, you know, or doing, or reading out of a textbook at the same pace as everyone else, every single kid is being met exactly where they need to be and going at the pace they need to be. Um, the result, um, kids can learn twice as fast and they don't need to spend all day sitting in a classroom to learn that. And if you think about this and Nikki, you probably have experience with this, you know, think about a 45 minute math class. How much of that 45 minutes is really new explanations of a concept that are understood. And in that 45 minute period, when, when concepts are being explained, there are kids who already know the concepts from the beginning and they're bored. And there are kids who at the end of that 45 minute lesson, they're like, I have no idea what I just learned. And in either choice in the traditional model, you have to go forward. Whereas what we're able to do now with this personalized learning method is it's going to teach them at exactly the right pace that they need. And so, uh, you know, of course then the big question is what do you do with the rest of the day? Because I know a lot of parents in a, in an in-school experience, they don't want to send their kids home after two hours. And what we've realized is we can take the rest of the school day that is now opened up to, to, uh, to develop life skills, right? And so it's grit and teamwork and leadership and communication and socialization skills and storytelling abilities and financial literacy, which I think are all of those skills that we believe are what help make young people successful when they go out in the world. And the traditional school model, there's not time to focus on those types of things because they're just trying to get through math and reading and social studies and science and all of those types of things. So, um, that's what my two hour learning model is, is we're able to crush academics in, you know, only two hours a day. Kids can learn twice as fast. We use NWEA map testing, um, to measure those results. And then we spend the rest of the day doing life skills development. And so no credentialed teachers involved? Um, absolutely. There are credentialed. I mean, it depends on which model you're going at. Um, but in Arizona, for example, um, you know, we were approved as a public charter. And so there are certification requirements for, um, the teachers that are involved. In our in-school private schools that we have, I would say about 10 to 20% of our staff are, uh, come from a traditional teaching background and they are so excited about the fact that we have provided an environment where we can transform the role of the teacher to be able to focus on motivational and emotional support and teaching these life skills that are really critical. So they're not teaching academics. We're allowing our, our, our kind of make learning personal platform to do that. Um, but instead our teachers focus on connecting with students, getting one-on-one time to understand what makes a student tick when they're challenged. What are the things they tell themselves? What growth mindset strategies can we incorporate into this? Um, and how can they develop the skills to be successful? You know? So things like becoming an expert in something or critical thinking, um, being able to analyze all sides of an argument, you know, before they make something that's, I think the thing that humans are incredibly good at doing that, um, now we're basically using artificial intelligence to raise human intelligence for both the student as well as the adults that are working in that classroom. Okay. So I'd love to dig into the AI program a little bit more. Does this have a specific name? Um, well under two hour learning, we're just, we kind of call it our AI tutor or make learning platform. Did you develop it in house? And what age do kids start using that two hour learning AI program? We just opened our preschool program today. So we have a, like a kinder bridge program that just started today. Um, we are a K through 12, um, school system. So we have students from, you know, as of today, pre-K, but kindergarten through 12th grade, um, who have been using our system. Okay. So what do you feel about screen time? Cause at those young ages, pre-K being five, four years old, even, um, you know, recommendations are kids shouldn't have more than one hour of screen time per day. So how do you justify like this difference? So I am actually, I'm a, I'm a really big fan of limiting screen time. Um, in fact, when my kids were growing up, we didn't do screens, we didn't do TV, we didn't do that kind of stuff. Um, I'm a huge fan of, um, the wait till 13 policy, you know, of not getting a smartphone or any of those types of things. Um, because I think screen time is something that can be a real challenge and we've certainly seen, you know, I was with Jonathan Haidt, uh, a couple months ago who wrote the Anxious Generation. We see so many challenges that come with that. Um, but what I would say is that not all screen time is created equal. There is a difference between doom scrolling, Tik Tok, or playing video games for hours on end, or just watching YouTube endlessly and receiving a personalized one-to-one totally engaging, uh, learning experience where kids are going at exactly that pace that they need. And so when we think about our kind of two-hour learning, uh, that we're spending there, um, what this is, is if I were to tell you, Nikki, that a kid was sitting with a human looking at them and they were giving them questions and when the kid got it right, they're saying, okay, let's go to the next question. When they got it wrong and saying, let's read this explanation, let's learn this. You would probably say, gosh, that sounds amazing. So what we're now doing is we're providing that experience. It does happen to be delivered on a screen, but you compare that to kids sitting in class generally like this and you're saying just because it's not a screen, but it's a teacher speaking in front of a classroom or sometimes listening to another kid, that's so much better. I would disagree. Um, and so the engagement part is a huge key to me. Um, the other thing that I think is so important that we teach young people as a life skill is they need to understand how to interact with technology. How should they be interacting with screens? What should they be spending their time putting into their brains, right? And so that's something that I think is just so critically important to have those conversations with our kids to be able to say, hey, you know, understand garbage in, garbage out, be thoughtful and protective about what you're putting into your head when you're spending time on screens. And then the other big skill that we teach our students is how they can be contributors and creators, not consumers, right? So how can we use social media? How can we, um, how can we use that to do something that creates positivity in the world and goes versus just watching? If you love video games, how can you build your own video game? How can you create events around these things? What can you do? And those are some of the skills that I think are really important to teach. Um, so that's kind of the long-winded answer to, you know, how do I feel about screen time? I don't think all screen time is equal. And I think there is nothing like providing kids with a super engaging way of learning that matches exactly where they're at and personalizes it to them. Um, it's, it's great. I'm curious what you think about that because are you just against screens because of, I don't know, eye issues or is it because you're like watching something? There's a lot. I mean, there's a lot of reasons when it comes to why I think limiting screen time at school is really important. But one of the things, I mean, you even mentioned is protecting them from like consuming the bad stuff or the addictive stuff. I'm sure you're using like iPads or Chromebooks. Yeah. So how are you protecting them from being able to access what all schools are struggling with? They're getting on YouTube, they're getting on Safari, they're getting on Discord games, whatever they can find. So how are you managing that? Yeah. So, um, you know, because we're doing our education online on screens does not mean that we've just handed kids a computer and iPad and said, go to town, let me know when you've graduated high school. Right. Um, we have to be so thoughtful about what kids are able to have access to. And so in this case, um, you know, our students have access to the learning apps which are based on K through eight common core. So it's the same curriculum that, that kids in traditional classrooms are getting or at the high school level, it's AP curriculum. So their, their, their access is to these apps that are teaching this stuff. Right. Not necessarily going and saying, okay, I'm going to go search, you know, the internet, you know, do that. Um, we also have, you know, safeguards in place for, um, you know, what kids are doing. Um, communication is via, you know, Slack for their, their guides, our teachers, we call them guides, um, as well as, uh, with each other. And so that's kind of monitored. Um, but I think that is, you know, it's critically important for schools to provide that safety. And I think, um, one of the challenges and I'm sure your, your social media and podcasts gives a great, um, platform to amplify the challenges that some schools are doing where they're like, hey, how do we balance this? Like we give them an iPad because then we can say we're tech forward, but then kids are off doing who knows what. Um, and so there's, there's that. Um, also our curriculum, like I said, again, it's not saying, hey, chat GPT, please teach fifth grade math to my student. Right. This is, we're not using that. Our AI tutor is monitoring and managing to understand is a student effectively and efficiently learning, taking information from assessments that we do and feeding that back into the system to make sure that kids are filling holes that they have. Right. Obviously really hard to understand eighth grade math. You know, you're trying to do pre-algebra. If you don't understand your fractions really well, that's hard. If you don't remember your multiplication table and that's the beauty of using technology to be able to say, hey, let's figure out what does the kid know? What don't they know? And let's go fill those holes, uh, which is that mastery based education. And that's done from a curriculum perspective. It's just done in an adaptive way. Um, as opposed to saying, hey, hop on the internet and just, you know, enjoy your day. Do they bring the devices home with them? Um, they have the opportunity to bring the devices home with them. If they want, we don't, um, we don't have homework in kindergarten through eighth grade. And so, you know, it just all depends on what, what they're interested in doing. Um, but those devices still have safeguards in place for, you know, students. Is it like a no paper environment? Do they have little notebooks to kind of work on the math on paper? Um, how does it look? Note taking is a super important life skill that we have to develop, right? So, um, it's critical that when you're doing that, I love when you walk into one of our kindergarten classrooms, um, our students have all these tactile things that they go and work on or we've got, um, erase, uh, like dry erase tables. So you'll see kids writing on the table, doing their, doing their math. Um, it was very funny. Our second grade students, uh, we have something called a check chart, uh, that goes across our grade levels of things that they need to be able to accomplish. So for example, like our, our fifth and sixth graders have to know how to change a tire, right? And, um, our second graders have to, um, as a community, they have to create a business that makes $5,000 in profit. Um, they have to do a, uh, our, our third and fourth graders do a grit workshop where they have to pass a triathlon that consists of three things, solving a Rubik's cube, um, juggling three items for 30 seconds and running a mile. And, um, so when we show that at the end of a six week workshop where these kids have practiced these things and learn that there's an algorithm to solving a Rubik's cube and they started by juggling with scarves and then eventually they're juggling with balls and they started by walking and running. Pretty soon they can run a mile. That's great. But one of the funniest, uh, stories this fall, I had a, a person touring through one of our second grade classes and they're showing all these check charts and the person's like, wow, these seem really hard. What's the hardest one of all of them? And the kids in unison said, learning cursive is the hard one. And that's an example. Like part of education is kids have to have tactile function. They have to get hand eye coordination. They have to do all of those things. And so, yeah, that's critical, but yeah, don't just need that. You can absolutely incorporate that with learning via personalized tutoring. What about reading from actual books? Cause I'm sure you've seen the research that kids really retain more from paper books versus digital. How do you feel about that research and are, are there libraries on campus? Is the opportunity there for them to read paper books? Um, absolutely. Um, I think, um, reading, I will say that I've, I've always loved reading and that is one of the tenants that, um, we encourage kids to learn to love to read by reading what you love. And, um, that's everything. So, uh, certainly there's paper books and we've got libraries that are really cute to see. And, and kids can do that. But the other thing that we've found is when you take that seven year old boy who hates to read, he doesn't like reading. He doesn't really want to practice reading, but you know that he loves his best friends from his soccer team. And he loves the Avengers movies and he loves his grandma and grandpa on his mom's side. And you then create a choose your own adventure story where he and his soccer teammates are the heroes in a go save the world Avengers style storyline that starts out with them eating milk and cookies at grandma and grandpa's house. And you put that story to the appropriate Lexile level for that child. Suddenly that boy is like, I want to read now that I'm the, I'm the main hero in this story. And that is an example of a way that we can personalize and connect kids to fall in love with something like reading, um, that, you know, isn't available on a book. How about, um, teaching kids, um, the ability to use AI, to give them tools, to help them be more creative and say, Hey, let's work together on writing a story where you're the hero and then reading your story to, you know, to your classmates, taking that home to your family and reading. Those are some of the things that technology is enabling us to do to get kids on fire and fall in love with the process of, of learning. And, you know, reading is a great example. This is certainly true in math too. One of the things I fundamentally believe is that competence leads to confidence. So if a child understands like, wow, I actually can read, I know how to read, I'm learning to read and I'm enjoying what I'm reading. They, they start getting excited about that. Same thing with math. If, if you understand the math concepts, all of a sudden you're like, okay, I actually kind of like this math. It's really fun. Right. And when we can enable kids to be successful in whatever academic thing that they're doing, it develops a confidence that makes them fall in love with the idea of becoming really self-driven learners. And at the end of the day, that's what I'm working to deliver is self-driven learners. So a lot of experts I've talked to talk about the importance of boredom and it sounds like your program is really fun and personalized and engaging and not boring, but life as you move forward is boring a lot and it's not super engaging and it's not super personalized. So what would you say to, you know, experts who talk about the importance of, of letting the kid be bored and sort of be creative in that boredom? Well, I think there's definitely times. So if you told me, you know what, sometimes when kids are at home, uh, they should be able to be bored and go make up a game and figure out something to do, go play outside. But if you're telling me that the value of sitting in a school classroom and being bored is a good thing, I would vehemently disagree. Sure. Um, also I think it's the same thing. I think you could take the same track of, Hey, um, you know, for example, one of the things we've created our cultures at our schools because kids get really excited about figuring out that intersection of their passions and their talents. They tend to end up working on, uh, activities and things that they really enjoy. And as a result, what we've generally seen is that we don't struggle as much as a lot of schools with, um, cultural issues that you see in traditional environments, especially at the high school level, like partying and smoking and drinking and doing all those kinds of things. And, um, I've heard people say, well, gosh, I mean, when these kids get to college, aren't they going to have to be around that? And my answer is always like, so you think just because when you're 18, 19, you're going to have to navigate, you know, a lot of that at 13. So the idea of like, yes, life will be boring sometimes. So let's make sure they're bored as often as possible. That's crazy. Sure. Okay. The AI tutor, does it include like a chat bot? Is there something they kind of interact with? No, not, not really. There's not a chat bot on there, but what they are able to do as they're learning through so that the AI tutor is really just kind of monitoring to understand, like if a child is going through a lesson, um, what's the pace and what's the accuracy level at which they're going through that? If they are blasting through the lesson really quickly, but their, their accuracy is low, then it'll say, whoa, we got to slow down here because the, either the kid's not fully reading the question or they're guessing or whatever, or maybe the material's too hard. Let's figure that out. So it's, it's very intelligent being able to figure out like, oh, this child is distracted and not paying attention. That's why, or they're struggling. Or on the other hand, let's say they're taking too long to answer something or they're struggling to get questions right. Um, is it because they need to revisit that concept and maybe it could be, okay, let's go back and reread the lesson. Let's watch a video that explains the lesson. Let's get auditory support to help you, or let's bring in a lesson from another resource that will explain something a little bit differently. Right? And so that's where the intelligence of the system comes in to be able to say, how can we make sure this child is absorbing and learning whatever it is that they're getting? Um, you know, on that, how many adults are there to support? Because I know a lot of kids when they're using, um, apps at school, they get really frustrated, especially when a, when something tells them they're wrong and they don't know why and they have to go back. It can be very frustrating. And often the program's not smart enough to figure out what's actually wrong and you need that human element to, to confer with the kid and figure out what's wrong. So how does that look? Yeah. In traditional school, you know, the app has not been the solution that everyone hoped it would be. And there's a few reasons for that. One of the reasons is, um, they've often incorporated this ed tech in a hybrid approach, which is like, okay, we're going through fifth grade math as a class, but three times a week, you're going to spend 15 minutes doing Khan Academy. And when you think about that, that time kids aren't well trained on how to engage with the app in an efficient way. And they're not, they're not managing. So they may just be playing. They could be playing a different game on that pad for all day. We know where they're not even on it, or they'll do something like topic shop where they, they say, oh, I'm going to, I'm going to try this. And then as soon as it gets hard, I'm going to back out, I'm going to do something else. And then they get plopped back into their classroom, still doing the same material that the class is doing. So how does that work? So, um, for me, one of the things that we've decided is we are creating this pure experience where kids are doing all of their academics, right? All of their academics are done via adaptive apps and, and AI technology so that they are, they're staying on that path that works for them at their pace level. Um, now that said, um, humans are integral to the classroom experience, right? You've got to have people there. And so that can look a little bit different. So at our, you know, our kindergarten through second grade level, you know, our, our ratio is one to five, right? And we have guides that are there now. And here's what they don't do. You will never see one of our guides teaching a child math. What they'll do is say, Hey, have you used your resources? Have you looked at this? Have you gone and gotten a, um, you know, some tools to, to try to work through this? Um, if you're getting frustrated, what kind of growth mindset strategies can you work through as you're doing this? And even most importantly, what's the motivation that we can tap into to get a kid excited? So, you know, at the kindergarten level, um, we would look like, um, one of our little girls when she gets, um, a concept, right. And she hits one of her goals for, you know, the day I do a 32nd Taylor Swift dance party together. And then that little girl goes back and is like, I'm ready to go at the older levels. Um, that could mean, uh, you know, we have a girl who's a fifth grader who, um, she had accomplished her academic goals throughout her six week session. And that unlocked the ability for her to go and do a recording session for one of her songs that she has written, uh, in a professional recording studio. She loves music. She's a singer. And she was like, what can I do to get this? The guides work with the students to figure out what their motivation is. So that's the way our, our, our teachers spend their time is kind of figuring out like what gets a kid excited when they're frustrated. How can we help them get back on track? Uh, what's important to them? You know, what kind of affirmation do they tend to like? What, uh, how are they hard on themselves? Uh, we spend time talking about things like inner critics, you know, and how valuable it is to realize, you know what? Sometimes I have an inner critic that sits on my shoulder and says, Mackenzie, you're not good enough or you're never going to get this. And instead our guides are teaching these kids, Hey, sometimes you have to learn. You tell that inner critic, Hey, shove off. I'm not listening to you. Or Hey, I got to enroll this inner critic to understand you're right. This is hard, but I just can't do it yet. But if I keep practicing, if I look at some more resources, if I go back and review something that I'd had, I can understand it. And those are the things that I think is missing in a traditional classroom environment. No fault of the teacher. Our poor teachers don't have the time or the space to be able to focus on each individual kid because they're busy teaching the curriculum to a group of, you know, 15 or 20 or whatever it is. Um, that's kind of what it is. Um, and you know what we spoke about or, you know, the video I saw of yours was specifically around Unbound Academy, which is our virtual charter school program. Okay. In that situation, um, this is a virtual charter environment, which means families who are choosing to become part of this virtual charter for whatever reason have decided that they want to have their kids educated at home. Okay. And so in that situation, uh, we're still getting the benefit of the two hour learning model, which I would argue there's not a better learning model that is more tailored to a virtual experience because I'll tell you what wouldn't be fun is sitting on zoom school the way that all these kids had to do during COVID.  that's not right. And, and that's what most, most virtual charters are in. Instead, our kids in the virtual environment are going to be getting that same two hour learning experience that our children get in the classroom environment. Um, and then they've got their teachers who are going to be working on things like practicing growth mindsets, um, figuring out motivation models that get the kids excited, you know, for going to learn and then spending all afternoon doing these life skills workshops. And just those life school skills workshops include devices as well, or is it mostly off devices? Well, I mean, because, you know, because it's a charter school, there are requirements for seat time. You know, you have to, even though you're at home in a virtual charter, you still have to go to school for a certain number of hours a day. So unlike homeschool, private homeschool experience where parents can say, Hey, we're done with our academics and we're going to go off to the park or the playground or whatever. Um, in a virtual charter environment, um, or any public environment, there are rules to do that. So our students will be, um, still connected, but they'll be doing group activities with their classmates as well as with their teachers. Uh, they'll be doing things like public speaking workshops, right? They'll be doing, um, activities where they get to, uh, do problem solving and teamwork exercises. Like, uh, there's a Mount Everest, um, simulation. It's actually a Harvard business school, um, case study that they do. And these kids will work on that. So yes, they will be on a computer. And again, for, for whatever reason, there are families who choose to have their kids educated at home, doing this from a virtual charter perspective. But the ones in, in a classroom or in a school past the two hour learning section. So for the workshops, the, the devices will be integrated depending on the type of topic that they're working on. Right. So for example, um, we have, um, students, um, last year we had our fifth and sixth graders ran an Airbnb. So that meant that they were at the Airbnb doing, um, interior design. They were building furniture. They were doing things like that. This year they're launching a food truck. Um, so they're doing, so they're not doing a ton of stuff on a computer, but we also have another one where, um, our third and fourth graders. Um, and actually we do this across the board, but kids love to code. So we'll do coding things where they're coding, self-driving cars. And certainly for that, you're using a computer. You're also working with a team, uh, you know, to be able to code. So it just depends on what the workshop is. Um, I will tell you an example of, you know, storytelling and public speaking is a great one. We use things like artificial intelligence to provide feedback on there. We use an app called Ori and it's really great for a kid who's maybe shy and nervous about speaking in front of an audience, but he can get feedback around, here's his intonation, number of filler words. Uh, we had a teamwork exercise where the test to pass was our students went to an escape room and they were mic'd up and AI analyzed their intonation and positivity to show are they being a great team maker. So, um, there's things like that. And then the other big thing, you know, my fundamental belief is that when education can be done in only two hours a day, one of the biggest thing is let's get kids out and be physical, you know, and let's, let's, so we always have physical workshops where kids are working. I have a question about the data collection. So AI, you know, a lot of these AI programs, even any ed tech app collects students data and that's worrisome to parents. And there was a lawsuit recently against power school that more than 70 million students and teachers data was actually sold to third parties. And so what data is being collected by the AI platform that you guys use? And is it shared with any third parties? Um, we have some third party apps that we use. We use apps like Excel or Khan Academy or Grammarly or EGump or whatever that is. So we have, we have information about a student and really what we have information on is about their learning experience. So for example, if you go on to two hour learning.com, I do an academic deep dive that shows what the experience is like for the student, for the parent, um, you know, as you can see the information. And so, so the, the information is around like how many lessons are they getting? Where are they at in their, in their learning? And I understand that there are, um, there's certainly going to be families who are always wanting to say, I'm on the very back end of the train on innovation and that. Um, and obviously those are families that aren't going to want to choose to be part of this model. But as I say here from my side, the future of education is really figuring out how to provide kids with this experience that unlocks their potential. And I often think that if people are like, Oh, but what about data privacy? What about this? And I'm like, sure, we do all the things that you safeguard, uh, to minimize against that. Um, but one of the big things that I think is so important that we kind of get to do in our society is kids are individual, they're unique and we should have options that work for those children, right? Like any kid. And so, you know, maybe your traditional, um, you know, school that, that has zero tech and whatever, if that's working for a kid, that's great. Right. But, you know, if that's not working for a kid, then that's not something that we're, that we're looking for. So one thing I want to touch on, and then we'll, we'll close out here, but, um, you know, I get really suspicious of these tech companies because their goal is usually engagement, which informs their profit. And a lot of these school devices or school apps are funded by big tech companies that that is their main goal is just engagement and getting our meaning, getting our kids to stay on there as long as possible. What does your funding look like? Are you having funding from some of these big tech companies that, that may be their goal? No, so for my, um, for the private schools, I currently have a private schools and then we're expanding throughout the country. Um, and so we're tuition based model. Right. Um, how we're doing that. Um, I actually have not aligned with any specific AI company, um, really because what we want to do is we want to find the best technology and the best innovation, um, that's working, uh, for that. Um, and then, um, in our, um, in our public experience, we have a state funded, right? Because it's tuition, it's totally free to students. So in that situation, um, the state will be paying, um, for, you know, that. So we'll be collecting money from the state in our public experience, but that's also what's allowing us to make, um, this model of education accessible for as many people as possible, not be in a private tuition based, um, model. So with the charters through the state funding, they'll have, the kids will have to do testing to kind of earn that funding, right? I'm a huge fan of testing. Um, and I'll tell you the reason. Um, well, first of all, I'll say in the traditional education world, testing is brutal, right? It's like, there's all this stress. Teachers feel like they have to teach the test all year. Kids get stressed out about it. And then at the end of the test, they get the results. Nothing changes for that child as a result of the, of the tests happen in our environment. We can take standardized tests and turn them into feedback that helps us understand what does this child need? What does this child need? What does this child need? What does this child need? What does this child need? What does this child need? What does this child need? What does this child need? And then let's feed that into the system to go fill those holes. And so one of the things, you know, I, I mentioned we use NWA map, uh, reports and I love asking parents. Um, I'll say, Hey, does your school do map testing? And some parents will say, yes, it does. And I'll say, do they give you the reports? Yes, they do. How long are the reports? They'll say, you know, they're two pages. I'm like, no, actually map reports are really more like 18 pages. Cause they'll literally go into detail of like this child knows their geometry, but we can take that information and go plug that in to fill all those holes. That's why we're able to get such great results of kids learning twice as fast and we're doing it in so much less time. And so, yeah, now as a state charter, uh, we have all kinds of regulations and rules that, um, that, you know, the state is going to require. Um, and I am super confident that we can blow through the academic, um, expectations, uh, really provide this phenomenal academic experience. Okay. For any parents that are currently enrolled, but that want to limit their kids screen time. So that's something that I try to do with my schools. Hey, can we do 30 minutes or less? Is that an option or is it just where I'm not a good fit for the school? Yeah, no. Two hour learning there. The reason I call it two hour learning is because our kids are spending about two hours. Actually, um, last year, our 20, 23, 24 school year, uh, we were averaging 1.77 hours. So it was a little bit less. Um, but yeah, it's a beautiful world. And I actually think we're going to get there where you could get learning twice as much in an hour. Um, but no, it's, um, right now the goal is kind of, we're at, we're at two hours. We practice the Pomodoro technique, which is basically 25 minutes of focus time. And then you get a break. Of course, for our younger students that can be shorter, you know, even shorter periods. Those, the, our younger students basically K through third are spending about 90 minutes, um, a day on, um, their academics, um, is what they're doing. So, you know, it's a creative choice, both in our private school model. Um, you know, it's families who are excited about what we're offering and life skills, development, and academic excellence. Um, you know, that's exciting for them. And then certainly that'll be the case in the virtual charter as well. You know, the beauty of a charter school is it's families who are excited about being part of that or who gets to be a part of it. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Amazing. I would love to talk to a teacher at some point that works for you now and, but then previously worked for a public school. You know, I'm thinking of all kinds of, um, great, you know, videos and interviews and things like that, that kind of go, you know, it was interesting. I saw your video, um, on Instagram that came across. And one of the things I, you know, like I said, I think, I think life skills are something that are so critical for kids to learn. Um, things like critical thinking. We have a, we have a workshop called both sides, which is, um, you make an argument for something you're really passionate about. Maybe it's, um, here's why I think I should get a later bedtime. Right. And it's the presentation to the parents of here's the reasons I think a later bedtime. And then what we have our students do is say, now we're, I'm going to give you a presentation on why I shouldn't have a later bedtime. What we want to make sure is that kids are putting their, their best effort and their critical thinking skills to both arguments. Cause imagine how great that would be if everyone had that skill. So one of the things I noticed in your video, I got it sent to me from a bunch of followers and I think we have followers in common, is how quick you were to, you know, decide, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know. And you, you know, you're, you're disparaged. And, you know, be against this, this idea that you actually had tons of wrong data and information about, and I was just curious, how do you think about that? Cause you, you put out a lot of false information that with a little bit of investigation, you would have seen, oh, we don't have no humans. We have teachers who are doing our life skills workshops. How do you react to that? Yeah. And, you know, I'd read, I think three different articles that all said those things. So I think I felt confident in that moment that that was real information. I mean, I'm glad to have this conversation and give you the opportunity to correct me on those things, but I still feel like at younger ages, kids shouldn't be on devices for that long during this, the day, just based off of the research. And, and the fact that we don't have access to safe devices yet for school, like using iPads and Chromebooks is not safe. It's not safe. It's not safe. It's not safe. It's not safe. It's not safe. It's not safe. It's not safe. It's not safe. It's not safe. And it takes collects a lot of data that does get shared with third parties and gives them access to, I mean, you can try all you want to restrict their access, but they can still get on things that you don't want them on. I mean, all schools are going to struggle with that. And so I think I've just seen the worst of the worst when it comes to what kids are able to get access to that. I just am very conservative when it comes to that. Yeah. Well, I mean, our, our unbound academy is you know, great at making sure that we're making sure that we're doing the right things for our kids. And I think that's, I think that's really important. And I think that's really important. I think that's really important. I think that's really important. Yeah. Well, I mean, our, our unbound academy is you know, grades four through eight. Okay. And so again, being in an at-home virtual environment where we don't have our teachers right there. Yeah. That makes sense. It's something that's one of the reasons that we decided not to take on kindergarten in our schools that are in person. We have so much more ability to kind of go in from a motivational perspective, from again, teaching kids how to be self-driven learners. Yeah. It's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, yeah, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, s it, get together, shut your mouth. Yeah. There's, there's that. And then I think the other thing that's really important is making sure that you know, we're engaged. I was,


in conversations with our students about being thoughtful around their internet safety, around their screen time, again, how they do app types, all of those kinds of things. I had a friend whose son was literally using his Kindle app to be able to go to anatomy pictures, and that was his closest he could get for satisfying sort of hormonal urges that he was looking for. And you're right, there's always going to be something on there, and I think it's great for parents to be vigilant about that. But the other thing that I think is really important to do that I think a lot of times parents don't do is let's sit down with our kids and let's go learn about how to manage screen time well. What kinds of things are you wanting to watch? And let's watch them together and let's have discussions about that. And the doctor actually created an AI chat bot, an app that takes shows that kids are interested in and then figures out how parents can use them for talking devices around morality and values, right? So for example, how old are your kids, Nikki? Four, seven, and nine. Okay. So there's probably, what's your, I don't know if your kids are watching anything, but do they have a favorite TV show or film that they watch at age seven and nine? I mean, we watched Wicked recently. Wicked, okay. So Wicked's a perfect example of that, where it's like, okay, let's figure out how can we bond over this thing of Wicked, and then how can we talk about things like friendship and being true to oneself and being willing to go against the grain, things like that. And that's something that my daughter who went to my first school, Alpha, from third grade through, she graduated this past spring and she's now a freshman in college. That's the kind of skills that I was very excited that our school was able to teach her, is like, let's use technology to provide a parent with the ability, if they don't want to sit through and understand every detail Wicked, right? Which actually Wicked's a kind of a fun watch or some shows that you're just like, really? I gotta watch this? But let me figure out how I can connect with my kid and talk about things that are of substance. And I always think that's a great thing to do is get parents to get in and connect with their kids. Yeah. And I agree. If we're going to set boundaries though, telling them why, teaching them about what the risks are. My last question, I wonder if you feel that, given what you've learned about your program and your belief in it, do you think kids who are in the public school system now are left behind because they're not getting these opportunities? And then also, do you feel like kids who are not given access to any tech in school, maybe until high school, and they're just minimally, will they be left behind? I think the state of our public education system is a travesty. I think it's absolutely awful. And I think you can see that in the results. I think you see that in the fact that the majority of our students aren't doing math. They're not doing reading at grade level. They're not learning life skills. They're getting socialization that's so negative in so much of my opinion, that I absolutely think education is broken, which I actually think it's a perfect way to end because we started with this, which is I do believe education is broken and it's time to fix it. And so one of the things, one of the reasons that I have Future of Education, I have a podcast and I have Instagram and YouTube is because I want to raise awareness to families that there is a better way where their kids can love school, where they can learn twice as fast and they can develop life skills. And I want to work to make this as accessible to as many people as possible, which is one of the reasons that I've been applying for charter status in multiple states, in addition to private schools, because I recognize that not everyone has the means or the interest in spending tuition money on a private school experience. And so if we can bring this into the public sphere and make it an option for families that are interested, I think that's where we're going to see a lot of success. But yes, I absolutely think that education is in shambles. So that's kind of where it is. But I'm so excited to get to talk to you, Nikki. I'm glad that I ended up seeing your video and thanks for reaching out to get more information. And yeah, I think it's a perfect example. We can't always trust what we read and sometimes we got to go do deep dives. But yeah, humans are critical. And what we're doing is we're transforming the role of the teacher to really make a positive impact on kids. And we're transforming the learning experience to make it personalized for each and every student, which allows us to raise the floor and blow the ceiling off of what's possible. Thank you, Mackenzie. I'll include a link to your website so that parents can learn more about your approach. And thank you so much for this chat.
