We got a $75,000 a year private school. We got a privacy nightmare, including sensitive information for children. And of course, because it's always and of course, the Trump administration is promoting it. So today we're going to talk about Alpha School, which is apparently the solution to all things education as we look into the future. Oh, is it? Let's get into why it may not be. The Alpha School is an interesting model for education. It basically is formed around the concept that kids learn and do their core curriculum for two hours a day. And then the rest of the day is for enrichment programs, which we'll get into in a little bit later. Please stay because when you hear about enrichment programs, people are going to get upset today, Kate, I think with this episode. I get the feeling you're already upset, but let's, let's cover our bases before we get there. Who are the folks involved in the Alpha School? So there's one woman who's kind of the face of the Alpha School. Her name's Mackenzie Price. She is Stanford educated. She's an education entrepreneur. And based on internal data, she basically is out there in the marketplace telling this story that kids learn 10 times faster than your average student in two hours a day. Now, our education system in the U.S. is not perfect. So maybe she has a point. Let's get into it a little deeper. The actual principal of the school is a man named Joe Lehman, but you wouldn't know it just from reading about it because he kind of intentionally stays like behind the curtain. He's not involved in the marketing at all. There may be a reason for that. Joe is a tech billionaire. He's the money and the kind of brain engine behind the school. And he founded a software company called Trilogy Software that creates software products, which are basically products that spy on employees in companies, put a pin in that we'll come back to it later. Welcome back to that later, because I'm already having so many questions, right? We got someone saying, I know how to fix education in two hours a day. Then we got Joe Lehman, who founded this password company that basically provides services to track employees, make sure every second of their life is dedicated to creating shareholder value. But I know there's one more character that it's missing here, right? Oh, and she's a big character larger than life. It's Linda McMahon, the education secretary for the Trump administration. She has talked about Alpha School as the model for where the education system in America should go. She visited their Texas campus and she called it exemplar and really is getting behind this school. I think there's no one more qualified in her because when you look at her credentials, she's the chairwoman for the America First Policy Institute. So that's her number one qualification. I wonder who benefits from that. And then she's also former professional wrestling executive, which of course is who you want in charge when you think about education. So my understanding then, when we sum up is we got to school, it's basically being pitched as an AI first or AI only educational institution. And we got the Trump administration saying, hey, this is the future of education, because let's remember Linda McMahon, she's also been promoting school choice, which is one of the favorite things for every government, not only here in the U.S., but everywhere that is trying to pull financing from public education. So, Kate, what's the pitch? Let's assume, you know, this is all a reality. What are they pitching here? Well, it's definitely not free. It is up to $75,000 a year. So you have to imagine that there's a certain kind of clientele that is coming into these schools. A clientele with $75,000 a year to spend on their child's education. But actually, I've heard of Alpha School before. They've been around since 2015. And it wasn't always this AI first education model. It really was kind of trying to push the boundaries of what academics really mean in a school setting. And I originally sort of had this positive idea of what the school could be as an option for people, because the results were really good. Kids are getting really great test scores coming out of school. They're getting into good colleges. It's all positive. Well, when we get to 2023, 2024, and these LLMs come out to the marketplace, they kind of do what they do everywhere, which is upend the system. Right? Come in and provide a new way for doing things. And that's exactly what happened here. So now they're framing this school as an AI first academics and the rest of the day being life skills, learning things that kids need to get ahead in the world. We're not there yet, but sometime in the next five years-ish, every kid, every four-year-old is going to get a tablet and it is going to teach them everything they need to know in two hours a day. Previously, the principal of the school said everything about education is obsolete. Every textbook, every lesson plan, every test, obsolete. You are not a principal at a school if you think chat GPT is good. And he said this while running a school whose AI lesson generator the employees internally even say is unreliable. So I think that there's a little bit of confusion as this school enters into the AI era and a lot of friction getting those AI systems to be positive educators for children. Yeah. And there's a couple of wild claims that we're having here, right? First of all, they say no homework, no traditional lectures. The students here scored in the 99th percentile of, so I'm assuming that's really good. And they say in two hours, you learn everything you need to learn every day. And then your reward is that you learn about life skills, such as Spartan races, coding self-driving cards, and building Airbnbs. So again, very promising, right? AI hallucinates. We know this. So you cannot deliver a fully formed lesson plan, individualized lesson plan to every student without reviewing them. And I think what we've learned through the investigation that's gone on into the school, basically there were a lot of documents leaked to reporters at 404 Media and they've covered it in quite detail. But they learned that these lesson plans weren't working. There were questions that were wrong and there were multiple choices where none of the options in the multiple choice made any logical sense with regard to the question that was asked. So AI generating faulty lesson plans, this is kind of like 101, like you have to have a human reviewer review it. If you know anything about applying AI at business, you know that they weren't doing that at alpha school. And maybe it's doing more harm than good because it's leading kids down the wrong path. And remember Kate, they were desperately trying to remove the human in the loop. So they did have something reviewing these AI lessons. You know what they had reviewing the AI lessons? Was it AI? It was AI! Ding, ding, ding. They implemented another AI system, removing completely any human in the loop to check on these lessons. And as it turns out, it might not be the foolproof, fail-proof process. I can't understand why removing the human from the loop would be their goal. Because they're potentially giving their kids like course material that is nonsensical. That's more frustrating than spending a little bit of time to make sure that it makes sense. The other thing we should mention, and I'm skipping ahead here, is around how they built these curricula, right? For the kids. Did they have their own proprietary methodology that they use? Did they invent something here? Let me guess, this is people that have previously or that are part of Silicon Valley and big tech, right? Yes. All right. So I'm willing to bet $10 that they have not paid for the training materials and they're scraping them from somewhere else. Let's say maybe Khan Academy or public resources. That is correct. And the leaked documents show that they actually instructed their employees to use their personal email addresses to log on to various education, e-learning websites like Khan Academy, so that it couldn't be traced back to Alpha School, scrape the entire database and repurpose the content for their own students. Which is a couple of things. One, probably unethical. Two, it's really weak. Like you gotta come up with your own stuff here, people. If you're going to charge $75,000 a year, like have your own curricula for goodness sakes. Three, and this one is the most important to me, they are using AI to shortcut for themselves, to take a bunch of stolen material and to create personalized lesson plans for their kids and then review them for their students and deploy them. They are not using AI in the way that it should be used, which is as a tutor, which is as a study buddy, which is as someone you can dive deeper into the material for, because they're so focused on teaching for the test in those two hours, they need to make sure that all those students get all the core curricula that they need into their little brains. I posit they're using AI wrong here. I was doing some research online and I found out actually the math curriculum was delivered through a portal called IXL.com, which basically is personalized learning, you know, no different than other platforms like check, for example. Now this platform, what they say is it should never be used individually. Basically they say this is an add on to work with a real human teacher. Should not be taken as a all in one educational solution. I don't know. This is a bit sketchy to me. Wait, wait, there's more. Because there are even more fundamental ethical boundaries that have been broken by alpha school. We've talked about Joe Levin and how he owned a bossware company, bossware being that software that tracks employees' behaviors, like their mouse moving, their keyboard moving, and even filming them with cameras to make sure that they're looking at their screen while they're reported to be working. How does that come into play here? Well, Kate, clearly this come out as a safe, modern learning environment in which the tech allows the folks in charge to understand engagement and build better learning pathways. That's what they say, which is totally wrong because actually in the real world, you got webcams that are continuously monitoring students to make sure they're keeping eye contact with the computer. For example, you get dystopian situations in which there was this student that was doing her homework at home and she stopped for a second so she could talk to her sibling about something and she got an anti-pattern notification. Whatever that means in a dystopian hell, that's a notification she got, right? So you got microphones recording one group sessions. Like we say, they were flagging students for anti-pattern behaviors, like being on pajamas or talking to a sibling. And also like they do with employees, you know, tracking keystrokes, mouse activity, and this founder, Joe Lehman, he had pioneer buzzwords. So he's definitely bringing some of his previous investments, but that's not all because you would assume you're working with children, you got sensitive information, I'm sure they're going to store it in a safe way. Yeah, they're going to put it in a data clean room with Databricks or something like that, right, where it's safe and secure. Sure. If a public link for Google Drive is what you mean by safe and secure, that's exactly what happened. 404 Media actually found the links to public files that anyone on the internet could find with things such as names and grade levels, classes taken, direct links to recorded Zoom video, tutoring sessions. So you would say this is a privacy nightmare? You could say that. I think also, you know, there's the legal aspect of it, of spying on kids, which is gross and also probably has some, you know, legal territory here. I'm not a lawyer, but I imagine that there, you know, a lawsuit could be brought, but there's also the fact that students reported feeling anxious because they were being watched. And, you know, a lot of the philosophy around this school is about, you know, being authentic and like sharing where you are in your learning journey and where you need to go. And, and I think that they felt kind of exposed. A lot of students burnt out the documents showed because of these anxieties around this program. So I think there's, you know, there's the legal side and then there's the psychological impact side of knowing that you're being watched. It really wears you down. It seems like there's a lot of wrong going on here. So what would be the end goal here? What's the end product of a school that clearly doesn't work with a curriculum that has been stolen, no real human oversight. Like what's the end game here? To me, it's a little bit of a dream that has not really come to fruition because of some very sloppy use of technology and not putting the students' best interest first. But then you could get a lot darker with it, you know, like you can just sort of see that, you know, students in these schools are, their families are paying for them to be guinea pigs in like product testing and data collection. That is actually fundamentally true. And it's pretty dark. I also think that the kind of undoing of traditional public education and leaning into this privatized education story, you know, AI enabled education story really works for the current administration. And they have an example in hand with quote unquote test score claims and internal data that shows that this is a really innovative and working model for students. And maybe for some students it is, but perhaps for other students, it's more damaging than it is, you know, leapfrogging them ahead of the competition when they get to applying for college. And one of the things that we've seen on the press on these investigations that we saw online is that all these wild claims about the 99 percentile of top students or whatever, those numbers were pretty cooked. Also, again, we're having folks from a wealthy background, right, that they can pay 65K a year. So even if this education is not the best they can get, you can make a safe assumption there's going to be a complement to this, an add on, so they don't fall behind. Now, for me, the endgame here, especially when you hear that what they're promoting here is this Time Back OS, right, which is a Shopify for schools, which already sounds horribly dystopian, right? We got a broken system. We got a government that, by their own words, they are trying to dismantle every structure from the state to promote a private business, right? And you might feel about that the way you want to feel. But basically, that's something that they've been trying to do. So they're cooking numbers, pitching this model. And ultimately, what I see this as the end goal, keeping in mind also Linda McMahon's, you know, school choice sort of beliefs, is that this is basically a beta test, like you say, they're guinea pigs for something that is actually for low socioeconomic sort of students, right, the ones that are the most affected by this knowledge desert. Basically, they're beta testing this with the end goal of promoting it as a nationwide solution. They'll say it brings personalized education that folks would never be able to afford it. They say, look at what happened with these kids. They were the best ever. So then if you fail, it's on you because these kids on these numbers we got, they already perform well. So to me, it all seems, and again, not a lawyer, not a political analyst, just a guy with questions and a podcast. And it seems to me like it's all one big grief, just like many things that are AI related, unfortunately. Well, yeah. And it's a really interesting theory and I hope to God it isn't true, but it just may be. I think there's an even simpler takeaway here, which is that this is a textbook example of what not to do with AI, right? Scrape the internet, just sort of make God knows what, don't check it and give it to your employer. But instead of a workplace, which is where we mostly hear this talk, this is at a school and we're letting underage students be vulnerable guinea pigs in an experiment that has clearly gone awry. If your education is happening like one-on-one with AI, you're lacking the social skills that come with traditional education, that come with having a project that you have to work on together, figuring out how your skills match, figuring out how to work with different personalities. Those are much more important skills for their future work and professional development than passing these exams and passing the SATs. And so I think that they're missing a huge portion of what school is for children and needs to be for children by making it happen on a screen with a robot. That's not to say that this couldn't be a great sort of addition to traditional curriculum and helping kids, older kids hopefully, build out their skills of working in collaboration with LLMs. But I don't think these guys have gotten it right. I don't think they have gotten it right either. But what I can say is that this is a pattern because we've seen it before. The unprepared, stealing content, employing magical thinking. And we saw it exactly on the Church of AI, which is another episode we put out in which we talk about Big Tech's obsession with speaking like a cult leader. So if you want to keep on watching, you got the video right now. And remember to subscribe, like, leave a comment here. It really helps this content get in front of other people. So go ahead and keep on watching so the algorithm gives us some love.
