My name is Mackenzie Price, and I'm the co-founder of 2-Hour Learning, a revolutionary new learning model that is transforming education as we know it. Today education isn't equal in America, but it can be with AI. Students can conquer math, master science, and learn about ancient civilizations. They can even ace their AP exam. Welcome to the future of education. The AI tutor that we have is incredibly good at figuring out exactly what does this kid know, what do they know, and where do they have holes in their knowledge. Our students are learning twice as fast as students in a traditional classroom, but they're doing it in only two hours a day. At Alpha School, I'm doing 12th grade language, 6th grade science. We work on computers, and what app we're working on, it allows us to work on much higher grade levels. I'm in 3rd grade, but in language I'm working on 6th grade content. I like that because it's a little more challenging than my grade level. These are the math scores for our kindergarten class at the end of the year. As you can see, almost all of the students are in the top 1%. I want to spend a little bit of time on high school. These are our students who have been using two-hour learning the longest. In high school, our average SAT score is 1470. 90% of our students get 4s or 5s on APs. They were accepted at Stanford, Vanderbilt, USC, UCL London, NYU Shanghai, the University of Texas, University of Austin, Howard University, Northeastern, and FIT. These academic results across K-12 are amazing. And the next thought is, wow, you must burn these kids out with tons of class time and tons of homework. Well, here are the actual number of hours that Alpha students spend each day on their academics. As you can see, the average is less than two hours a day. What is this? This is called our check chart. We have academic topics, but we also have life skills. I mean, yeah, you've got life skills. Independently put together a piece of IKEA furniture, then solve a Rubik's Cube, juggle for 10 seconds, and then run a mile without stopping? Absolutely. For the Airbnb in the workshop, we were able to... Wait, hold on. Wait, let me rewind you. Airbnb? Yes. Like an outside Airbnb in the real world? Yeah, we were running an Airbnb. We have a school that's all about sports, and so kids are just getting to be outside and be physical and active. We have a school where kids are spending all afternoon doing robotics and coding. We're learning how to code, and we're also learning teamwork. We can make our card go forward, backward, identify a stop sign, and take photos. Bella, what was your idea? We could have a lemonade stand. We could donate the money to make clean water. Clean water! My role as a guide is really to support students to go beyond what they think they can do. Being able to include people and care for people as you collaborate and work together really does impact the success of that team and that group overall. You know what, Mom? I'm going to have a growth mindset. I am going to read this book. I am going to persevere. And I looked at her, and I was like, you are seven. How do you know what a growth mindset is? And she just looked at me and said, I learned it at school. Incorporating life skills into the day, every day, of a student's life makes total sense to me. And what truly helped me get to the point where we were very comfortable sending our son to Alpha and next year our daughter was just the people, both the leadership as well as the guides. You can tell that they love what they're doing. Sorry, I'm going to get emotional. As a parent, the rules have flipped. These kids, they are lit, they are energized, they are talking about what they're doing, what they accomplished. It is absolutely fantastic. There is absolutely no limit that these kids believe they have. We wanted him to be challenged at the appropriate level. They're not letting these kids move on until they show mastery of every single topic. That's the difference for me. AI is going to affect every industry that's there, and it is going to affect education. This technology can raise the floor for every student and just blow the ceiling off of what's possible. We believe children are limitless and it's our job as schools to help unlock that potential. We can impact millions of students and I feel like it's a life purpose that I'm so excited to do.
