00:00:09 Speaker 1
The film was shot in the city of Krasnodar.
00:00:40 Speaker 1
The city is located on the banks of the river Svitava.
00:01:12 Speaker 1
The film was shot in the city of Krasnodar.
00:02:33 Speaker 1
The city is located on the banks of the river Sava.
00:03:04 Speaker 1
I'm not sure what the problem is.
00:03:35 Speaker 1
Oh, sorry about that.
00:03:37 Yash
I totally Can you hear me? Yes, I was on mute. My bad.
00:03:43 Speaker 3
There you go. I was like, you were like over here. I'm like, hello? Hello? Hi, how are you? Good to see you.
00:03:49 Yash
Yeah, I'm doing phenomenal today, It's funny. Um great. For the most part this earlier this morning, i went on a run with uh Jesse itzler. He uh came into town. Um don't know if you know him by chance.
00:04:01 Speaker 3
I know the name who is he again,
00:04:02 Yash
He's the person who created the big. Ask calendar. That's one of the things that he's done, and he's also got the Running Man Festival. He's really yeah, huge in the space of health and wellness, and he's you know got I think about a million change followers himself. And Jesse Itzler.
00:04:19 Speaker 3
Yeah, here he is. Yeah, I think he follows me or something. That's where I've seen him. Awesome How'd you get connected with him?
00:04:27 Yash
Uh, Just he he put up the fact that he was doing this run club today. And I uh two parts, He had inspired me one on uh, with his big ass calendar to for me to create my own last year where. I custom designed a calendar for the three hundred and sixty five days where I printed a polaroid for every single day of my year, and I custom put up a polaroid on my calendar. And then today, about a week ago we, A friend and I went on a run and were like, came across a video where, A person just had a backpack on and put some cream and ice and churned some ice cream. So were like, can we do this but make it a step above? So, I created fake bibs, marathon bibs and handed it out to a few friends and said, Hey, you guys want to show up to his run and just kind of like do something with this. And see if we can get his attention. And uh.
00:05:20 Yash
We nt on the run. And uh he, he, he loved it, and he like gave his reaction to it. And all that. And so I was just uhum amazing. Yeah, It was a cool morning.
00:05:32 Speaker 3
That's great. What a great way toum yeah, to get in make your runs more fun. Huh?
00:05:37 Yash
Yeah, exactly churning, some ice cream, calling it churn and burn.
00:05:42 Speaker 3
Very cool. Okay. So do I is it yash or yosh?
00:05:45 Yash
It is Yosh. It's like lush but with a Y.
00:05:48 Speaker 3
Yes. Okay, great. Well, thank you for jumping in. Yes. Um, I know you met with Chris and Haven, and you probably have heard our marketing team has been so slow to the AI train. Mhm And I mean, it's just been brutal. Uh. And so um you are our savior who's going to come in and inspire everybody to get more AI first and then take care of some of these challenges. So example is. You know, the bot for responding to Instagram comments. Jay, who's the one who started my has really been the one growing it. He's still very old school, and for example, he's like Mackenzie I need you in the comments more. And I am like, nope, that is the last use of my time is sitting in comments, doing emojis or whatever. Now, he you saw his email that he sent today.
00:06:38 Yash
Great feedback.
00:06:39 Speaker 3
It is, you know great feedback, which is it is connecting. And oh you know, examples of. I'm a public school teacher for the last 20 years, and it's so hard and it's like, you are a hero. Keep it up. You are the best. We love teachers, you know, Stuff like that versus just a we are in LA or we open in the fall or whatever. Um, We want to do a mix of that, but that's an example where Jay just wouldn't think to go, oh, we could build an AI tool to do that. He's like, we got a great human tool and Mackenzie should go in the comments. No, no, no So. That's one of the ideas that I'm excited for you to work on.
00:07:13 Speaker 3
I think Haman and Chris already gave you the project around our PR and, you know, what we want. Yep. Again, I ideally would like to see something where we're able to go onto a website and be like, here's all the good, good bad and the ugly. And here's the response, you know for the criticism. You know, okay, you read the four or four article and you read the Wired article. Here's, here's the general. And that way, when somebody asks me, well, what about what I saw on this? It's like, you know. Very, you know, very inaccurate article. Hard to comment on. You know, wish Jessica Lopez and her family the very best. You know, I am glad they're having a better experience at their school. You know, whatever it is. So those types of things that we want to go through and then I'd love to also see. Okay. Then third area is all of our copywriting and marketing stuff. What we've been using there is this woman named Grace.
00:08:11 Speaker 3
She is not AI first all, like not all. And she is feeling the discomfort of being in this team because of that. So she's like, Can I please just go focus on this other thing for right now? And. So what I want to do is she's going to send me her list of tasks, but she's basically doing copywriting and you know marketing events, whatever it is those types of things. And, we need to figure out what's the easy automated way that we can literally have our marketing department run on an AI bot that, that goes there. What I've asked her for, and I don't let me see if she's given it to me yet. Oh good. Um okay, I'm going to forward this to you so you can see what she said. Basically what I asked her was um.
00:09:06 Speaker 3
You know, Greg, how do you currently uh how do you currently take content requests? And you know what what did we do? Here's a doc with writing project or marketing projects. Now I don't know. Need attention. I don't know who this Oh, that's so funny. She has been I think she's been leveraging super builders to get her work done because she can't get it done on her own Okay. So that's what I am noticing from this because she's like," Hi Super Bowl, here is all the stuff I need to do." And.
00:09:43 Yash
This is Grace you are talking about.
00:09:45 Speaker 3
Grace, yeah. Grace Capobianco is who it was. Yep. And she's like," Redirect content requests to the Super Bowl or team." So. Obviously, one of the things we need to do is you need to give us information on how we how the marketing team should put their requests in. Right. Yep. I'm hosting a parent, you know, a founding families parent event on this date. You know, what do I need to do to get this done? Right. What's the what's the copy thing? So that's another place that we need that. And I envision that that's something that I'd love, you know, You read on X about all the things that like one agent does all marketing work for everybody. And let's get there right? Yep Um. So that would be a great thing to do so That's a third area That. I would love to see.
00:10:29 Speaker 3
And then the other thing that I'm curious, and this is something that's, let's get all that stuff really, really going and cleaned up. But. Then the next thing I'd love to see is what are some of the things that we could do with social media to be able to create more content? Example, I just had an idea today where I was, you know, our theme for session four is community. Community. The key to my happiness is contributing to community. Let's do a battle of the workshops and get my Instagram followers to weigh in on which workshop is better. Let's have a you know, let's have a ladder or whatever it's called, a bracket. Anything like which workshop is better, The animal shelter that that Santa Barbara is doing, or the food bank that you know San Francisco is doing. Which one is better and go through. And that way, it highlights more of the things that we're up to. Um And where where does that go? Maybe that you know we've never focused on YouTube.
00:11:28 Speaker 3
Because, in Jay's words, Youtube is just a heavier lift, and I don't have as much time to go film that kind of stuff. But maybe we're going to start doing the faceless things where it's like, "Here is workshops." The key to contributing to my kid's happiness is. You know what I am saying? You know, Here are the workshops that we're doing, and let's figure out what can we create. Using AI that tells stories that help you know people see that, so that's some of the stuff. And then another thing is, you know, the Alpha website. We just want to make it better. I don't know if you saw Texas Sports Academy guys ; I just saw this come across my computer this morning, but it was basically like the learning science behind why our program works okay. And I was like, What a great thing to actually sit down and go through space, repetition and zone of proximal development, and.
00:12:23 Speaker 3
You know, All this kind of stuff that, that should be just a, you know, it should be part of the tab on the Alpha website of want to understand the learning science behind what we're doing. Boom, here's these four things. And it was created so quickly now this Orton Gillingham one was, you know, for you know, generally remedial stuff. Let's how does Orton Gillingham work for advanced kids? Um, and that's another thing. I've always wanted on the website and still haven't gotten is when you go to the Alpha website. I'm a parent. I want to know, I have a kid who is bored stiff in school and is a perfect A plus student. Um, should Alpha be a good fit for that kid? And I want to have a persona that says, yeah. And, then it pops up, here's the story of so and so's kid, who was top of their class at their old school, bored as could be. And, the school told them that they had to chill out on math because they were too far ahead. Here's the experience at Alpha. I have a kid who is.
00:13:21 Speaker 3
Way behind, and you know, whatever. I have a kid who is hates school, and it's a it's a battle to get him in the car every morning. Here is a kid who does that right, And so we need to have personas as opposed to just throwing up information. You know, on terms of that. So, that's one thing that I think would be awesome to have is. And in an ideal world, if you had me as a little avatar that pops up, and it's like tell me about your kid. Oh, here is the thing. Sounds like your kid. You know, like okay, this is this is the case study of that kid. Here's what you care about. You're curious about you care about academics? Great. Let's go deep on academics. Oh, you don't give any shits about academics? You care about life skills? Let's talk about life skills and what that looks like. You know, Whatever that persona is because right now, our website is still just a It's,
00:14:09 Yash
A static aspect of a bunch of links put together.
00:14:12 Speaker 3
Yeah, It's yeah. Exactly. Those are the things that I'm kind of interested in What. Do you think all that.
00:14:17 Yash
Great. You went through five things, I believe. I'm going to try and go in order of the five things so I can keep up with if I could keep up with that first. The bot, The question that I have jumping up immediately for that Instagram comment in regards to what you had spoken with Jay not being as AI forward is one of the comments that he has within the email is To your point, he states within here.
00:14:49 Yash
One note to reframe for the purpose of this bot, it's not so much to relay factual information. We actually have an incredible active human led DM system for that. So every time you see a comment, there is one issue. So.
00:15:02 Yash
Just Get that going from this sense of correct. So I wanted to ask you in the lens of like, since you shared this information with me, I've been spending some time looking at his and just looking at how I go about planning. Um, uh, If if you are okay with me, taking the directive to try and make the pushback of I, think I can still hit AI forward with all of these things and still allow um the lens because I mean immediately like I agree like the DM system can be cleaned up with AI um as well, so as to not leave Mary I believe, is the person that he has in here. So um I just wanted to touch base about the pushback that I could have in regards to that.
00:15:38 Speaker 3
And. And and also another wish on that when we're talking about the Instagram is some of these followers like this guy Jesse that you just ran with, he follows me. Like, we should be taking advantage and understanding right now. It's just a running spreadsheet that I think Mary or Jay puts together of like, ooh, So and so just followed us there because wouldn't it be great if we can sit there and say, oh, we're opening a school in Chicago. Here's our list of influencers who live in Chicago. Let's, Develop those relationships and make sure we're there. And right now that's still completely hand done. It's totally manual and it's literally just hoping that somebody happens to notice when, you know, Kate Hudson follows us or whatever.
00:16:21 Yash
Yeah, I mean in one of my initial scope of plan that I just shared, which I appreciate you sharing and Jay, I think one of the things that I can do with this buildout is kind of just be like who are high profile people based off of this, like once we as soon as they follow us, also be able to do some sort of like. Scraping to be like, are they having events that are happening in their own cities? How, can we identify what events do they have? And then how can like that, that information be parlayed into your schedule if I can get access to, I guess identifying also like your own schedule. So I can try and play around with things of that nature.
00:16:55 Speaker 3
Yeah. And, that would be an amazing thing because the other thing I'm working on on a different side is when I'm traveling. So like, I'm speaking at a big event in San Diego on us, Whatever date April fourteen, And in my head right now, I have to be like hmm, I should probably bounce over to Orange County and do a parent event. And, do we know anyone who's been asking me to be on podcast in person? You know, And so I should do that like any types of things that where we can consolidate all of those types of activities. Um and know who to reach out to you know, And I think there is some level with you know at what point if there are VIPs where they're.
00:17:35 Speaker 3
You know, like great. That is where I should be sending notes and DMs and saying let's connect, whatever those types of things. Yeah.
00:17:43 Yash
Um, perfect. I will you've given me stuff to chew on and I'll think through some stuff and I'll send you updated information regards to that in on all things. And then moving on to the second one, I'm going to go ahead and share my screen because I've got a few questions. The second one was in regards to uh Kristen Haven's uh updated share. And I believe you've already seen this? Yes, Um, so oh, So this is what Haven had kind of mapped out uh in regards to showcasing, you know, the the person can select a few different things for as an option. And based off of that, we're kind of pulling up information. I don't necessarily think this looks good. I'll like the information structure hierarchy can all change. What has shown up for me is I believe something that Patrick had.
00:18:31 Yash
Um, Spoken about a long time ago was, uh he mentioned that he had gotten uh with you about trying to understand what are some marketing pain points. And he said that you were talking about having info sessions without um knowing which type of parent is coming on board, and it's all over the place and I want to be able to make it so that this info session is valuable to your time. So he went ahead and created this specific structure. I don't know if you recall this uh website where he was like. Um, Let's make it so that they all get some sort of points that for watching the video. And by the time they get to the end of it.
00:19:07 Speaker 3
So he never said that to me. Okay. He said he was going to do it and then he never followed up, so I never saw this. Okay. Um, But what this would be interesting to connect with is have you do you know who's working with Elliot?
00:19:20 Yash
I do not know who Elliot is, so no. Whoops uh we just got cut off.
00:19:28 Speaker 3
Do, you know, do you know there's a Super Bowl builder uh, who who is working with a guy named Elliot at Tegno.
00:19:37 Yash
I think they're having their event.
00:19:41 Speaker 3
I'll find out, but here's what he did. They have created a community site, which is our biggest win of the year so far, where let's say we're going to launch in a new city or we're. We or we are just getting what we're eventually going to do. I think it gets a few weeks out still, But the goal is that we're going to have a thing in the bring out of my city love community site for every single city, that basically says, here's what we need in order to come to your city. We need to have at least twenty five, you know, kids or whatever it is, plus real estate, plus this plus that and here's what it is. And they built out a great site so far.
00:20:22 Speaker 3
And I'll share with you, um, oh, what's the best way to share it with you? I don't know if you can access it without.
00:20:33 Yash
If it's part of the alpha aspect, I should because a super builders is under the alphaumbrella. If it's within Google Drive or anything, then I should always have access to it.
00:20:41 Speaker 3
Yeah. Let me give you an example. I'm going to send i'm going to put this in the link. Um This is Greenwich Connecticut and so basically what what it was, Greenwich wasn't even on our list of considerations, right? We had family who was like, "We must get to Greenwich." So we created this community site. The families started signing up and then it allows them to share information about Alpha, and it allows them to learn about Alpha and come in and like learn everything. It allows us to see, "Hey, we don't have real estate currently." Um. You know where where do you want you know what would we do? And um. And families can do all that. And at that point.
00:21:20 Speaker 3
Point, we had had an idea. So that's what I asked Patrick for originally was I was like, I want a way to help people learn. He didn't follow up with that, But I'm wondering if you're the point system that he created might be helpful in this community site. So you should play around here. Okay. And I'll.
00:21:37 Yash
Go ahead and request access and go from there and see what's interesting.
00:21:40 Speaker 3
Yeah, If you can get in There, was something You have to pay a thousand dollars to. Get full access to the site, So they had to give me something special, so that I could go in and see everything. Otherwise, you know, they think you are a random family. Um, let's see if we can get in it. Uh,
00:21:58 Yash
Yeah, It looks like it's about,
00:21:59 Speaker 3
But anyways, we believe we believe that community site is going to be what uh really allows families to self organize and educate themselves and each other. And you know, even given. You know, like with real estate, we overlay with what what real estate is and where we're at. And they can literally say, no, that's a terrible place because you understand it's across from a homeless encampment. Uh oh, this is a great place but you're going to have zoning issues. I know the mayor, so I can reach out to him and do this, or you don't even know about this place. It just became available, but you know, I own right or whatever. It's right. It's those kinds of things that go yeah there you go so you're in.
00:22:40 Speaker 3
So this is where it talks about learning all that. So I'm wondering if in the learning, if there is, you know, We'd have this idea of a point system where that unlocks, because that is what enables people to then show up to an event. And, we're not doing a hey, here's alpha though. Our whole event structure now is when you walk into a school event, it's to meet other parents, to hear from guides and students. So there's never a world where I stand up and say, let me tell you about the three commitments and how Alpha was created, blah, blah, blah.
00:23:13 Yash
So I could move all of that in here if this is not already there. Um, Like how would I go about accessing that specific information now for that entire structure that you're talking about? I think I have Alpha. I mean, I'll just go through what Patrick has in the Learn tab.
00:23:27 Speaker 3
Is it in Learn? Yeah. What what? Is it in Learn and then the tab?
00:23:35 Yash
Perfect. It all seems text based, but yeah, okay. Cool. I'll go through.
00:23:42 Speaker 3
Exactly So, some kind of combo and I can find out. Let me ask Elliot, which super builder he's worked with Which.
00:24:00 Speaker 1
Okay Okay.
00:24:02 Speaker 3
Uh I'll find out and let you know.
00:24:04 Yash
Cool. While that's happening, so in regards to this, I mean, the persona aspect, I want to there's a couple things that show up for me. Persona is what you're talking about. And I think what information that I got from Chris and Haven. You just mentioned having you as an avatar pop up and be able to have this potential interactiveness where they are on the site. And they can maybe like a chatbot aspect, have this conversation because. As of right now, One of the restrictions that I've mentioned to both Chris and Haven was that it's going to be limited as to how much information that I can extract about the person who comes to our site without like they're not logged in or anything. I just it's very limited at the scope as to what I can do. So, I can't just decide what they are for me to give them that information. So, It feels like this, what she's done has been like a high level like pick and choose aspect and I can.
00:24:58 Yash
You know, do something slightly more, uh, you know, advanced than them just picking a specific option to get into it. But I wanted to make sure, and we're on the same page in regards to that, that your expectations slash. The commitment is not a random person clicks on it. And then we are just laying out that information immediately off the top of the bat.
00:25:20 Speaker 3
No. No. I agree, a random person is not going to give us information. We can't have. You know, we're not going to have it, but. What I want it to be like, you know. So maybe that's where it's like, uh, you know, hey, tell me more about what you know what What are you looking for? And, it's a pop up of my kid is bored in school because they're advanced. My kid is miserable in school. My kid is behind in school. My kid isum Yeah.
00:25:48 Yash
But break down the characteristics of the kids exactly.
00:25:50 Speaker 3
And can handle being whatever like, then that way we know. And then we can have the thing, because like we have so many, um actually that brings up I'm gonna add a sixth point of something I'd like to do. So. The other thing is, you've probably seen how many of our parents are willing to go on. And do random testimonials, like, you know, on X, you know, or whatever they're like I just want to tell you about how great it is I'd love to have a way where we're constantly. Monitoring random things like that, so that you like, here is what parents are saying about Alpha. Because what happens now is we get, you know, we have basically we have one mom in uh in in Brownsville who left, you know, the school three years ago. She's made it her full time job to bitch about Alpha. Yeah. And. So it's like basically this one woman Jessica. And it'd be like when someone says, well, we read the wire article about this. It's like.
00:26:41 Speaker 3
Here is the you know hundred testimonials from parents who are saying the opposite, have a different experience. And I'd love to have a thing that just constantly goes and updates that. And just to give you an idea of how bad we've been, uh Yash, like if you if you go to the blog on Alpha dot schools website, Um it originally it, basically the guy who is running it, he had put stuff up. From back in July, and then it hadn't been touched. So I emailed him the other day and I was like, "Just take the blog off if you are not going to update." He's like, "Oh, sorry. I'll go in and update," but he's he literally is like manually i'll update. Why is not my future of education Substack just pulled every week? Here is a new update. Here is a new thing. Here is what parents are talking about. Here is the random X post of a parent talking about their office experience, you know that that was you know whatever it was.
00:27:33 Speaker 3
Um, that's what we have to have, and maybe that's part of the press thing. Here is what parents were saying. Here is what this is, And that way, we just go like you because everyone wants to know what is it really like. I see the marketing great here is what this parent wrote randomly or shared.
00:27:48 Yash
Um uh to that point uh, That's perfect that you brought that up because I can pull in scraping related stuff into a sort of like CRM, that's just being updated constantly. And if uh one of the informations that I got via. Uh, I'm blanking on Jay was to kickstart all of this. Are you comfortable with, if I just make it to where it goes into some sort of Slack that you have someone who's an approver for saying that or you want it to be fully automated from the get go? I can do that, but No,
00:28:18 Speaker 3
No, no. I am totally good. I do agree with Jay that we have to be super thoughtful about the level of the audience we built. So I'm totally fine with this being uh manual approval to make sure that we're. We're not doing a smiley face when someone's like, my kid's been crying every day. You're like, yeah, that sucks to be you or whatever. Um, that kind of thing. So, we do need to make sure that it's going right. And and Jay, as you see Jay Juliana and uh Mary all have the ability to spend time looking through to say, is this the right answer?
00:28:50 Yash
Correct. Pardon me. So, what what my clarification is, uh yes, for the Instagram, but I'm also talking about it from the lens of, but the blog as well should I make that? Sorry, I didn't know if that's something that you are wanting for.
00:29:04 Speaker 3
In general with the blog, if it's if it's something from a Substack or whatever, then that's already been approved. So it's fine to be able to do that. Um I think the where what parents are saying, we want to be thoughtful about, you know, make sure that, that is, is that positive? Is it not which actually for the most partum.
00:29:23 Yash
I can classify it for the positive aspect and let the that just only bring in that aspect. So I don't have to worry about that. It's more like the in the news, because I think what I like had the access to the transcripts between conversations that you had with Chris and Haven, et cetera, where I went through it. And I believe one of your precise requests was we don't want to flood them with all of this information and keep it concise. So I think it got trimmed down to like, I believe 28 ish sources. That is like, Let's even cut down and dial it in. So I am trying to understand if we get more.
00:29:55 Speaker 3
Yeah, what if you did this? I would love to have it as a thing where it's like, Do you have five minutes to learn about Alpha? Or do you have five hours? And, one of the things that in one of the websites that we created with the first round out of press, the problem was like, okay, here is four podcasts to watch there. It's three hours each. Well no we don't need We don't need four podcasts. How about you want to hear one podcast with Joe the principal? Watch this one. You want to hear one podcast with Mackenzie on an education one. Here is the hard fork one. You know, you want to read an article, you want this, you want that, and it should be a mix of here is a podcast, here is an article, here is a news story, here is whatever it is right there. And here is a testimonial. You know what are the things so that people aren't inundated? The problem we have is we inundate people with content without giving them.
00:30:49 Speaker 3
A roadmap to understand how to do that, right? So you know, and I would agree. I don't think the person who watches " I nv est with the B est " podcast. Joe doesn't also need to watch another three hour PPT of podcasts. It's like pick one or the other. Do you like it here or do you like this one? Okay, here is one or the other. Now do this or this, right? Whatever it is. Um that's what I would say. And then with negative articles, I actually don't mind having those, On the website either, because I think and what I love love love the heading is, you know, at our schools, we teach kids the idea of both sides that they should be able to understand both sides of anything. If you're a parent who's thinking about Alpha, you should hear all of it. Here's you know, and that one I think you might have gotten it was, you know, here's some articles that are critical, and here's Alpha's response,
00:31:38 Yash
Yep. Um yeah I can go about uh doing that. Uh what'll that's great. Uh. Last set of questions that I want to go through. Uh Texas Sports Academy. You mentioned something on here that you liked. So was it? This learn to action two hours I'm trying to you. You had spoken specifically about, uh, there was something on the Texas Sports Academy. Nowum here,
00:32:01 Speaker 3
Let me send that to you because this was also a good one.
00:32:31 Speaker 1
Okay, there it is.
00:32:35 Speaker 3
What I like about this, it's not exactly, you know, it's not like a word for word. But what I what I thought was amazing is how quickly they were able to come up with the content around? And it's again, it's not even necessarily in the right order or whatever, but it goes through and says, Do you want to understand the learning science? This part. It gets really good when it says mastery zones of proximal development. Here's this. Those are the things that uh, you know they're not that hard to grasp. If you're like look, these are the seven or six research based principles. That should be a part of our website, and it should be something too for again, we get.
00:33:14 Speaker 3
Parents come in. Some parents are like, "I don't care at all about the academics. I want to hear about the life skills." Others are like, " I want to know what LLM you're using to create your content and how are you doing this? And what's your math philosophy?" And blah right? And so that's the other thing we should be able to say, like, "What do you care most about?" Or you know and or have they ever I don't know. I guess I just think of school or what are you most concerned about? Are you concerned about. Your lack of community. We we had a crazy one uh that came up the other day. Parents were actually concerned about the fact that we don't do galas and fundraising things because they're like, well, how are we going to meet other families? Because the only association they have with their school is is when we go, and they ask us for money to get together with other families. So do you guys do that? It's like we do so many events, but but we don't ask you for money at any of the events. You know, it's that kind of stuff.
00:34:03 Yash
Uh cool, yeah, I can do that. And then uh I think the last one, maybe I might have a couple more is. Uh, is there a scope for I mean, Not scope prioritization that you have in this because I think you listed off about like six things. I know and I'll put that in sort of an email. But is there well,
00:34:20 Speaker 3
You should just decide how you want to prioritize within the world of if we're updating the Alpha website. One component of the Alpha website is the press. What people are saying, right? Here's what people are saying, or here's the press and parents and whateverum. Here is if there is a persona, you should decide how what can you break that out. Do you need to rebuild the whole thing? Do you do you add bits and pieces? I'd love to get the comments thing going sooner. Let's get that started. The um the idea for using AI for uh Instagram content, that could be a further down the line. And what I really would like to do is I want to get Jay sold. He still very much is like well yeah, you know he'll say things like.
00:35:07 Speaker 3
I tried Claude like six months ago and it wasn't great. And I'm like, okay, don't say that from a joke. Not ever say that on a show. Like you need to be doing this on a daily basis. But part of what if we can just still work to figure out how to help him see the light on, hey, this is where AI's going to come in. But those those other things creating content, that's second for sure put that on the back burner right now. Let's work on, you know anything around uh, making the content we have more digestible Yep.
00:35:37 Yash
Um, I can focus on that. So the number one A is going to be That's number one.
00:35:41 Speaker 3
Actually, sorry. Number one is going to be, how do we replace Grace with the copywriting marketing stuff that he's going to need?
00:35:51 Yash
Okay. Uh, I'll I'll dive through this cool. Okay. Yeah,
00:35:55 Speaker 3
That's an immediate thing that we're going to need to do is how do we? How do we get that because we're going to have people who are like. I need to send out an invite. I need to send out a summer camp thing. I need whatever. So we need that. Um, and then number two is going to be making our content more digestible, and then the DM responder. Does that sound reasonable? Yeah,
00:36:15 Yash
It does. Uh, in regards to number two, uh, The thing that I want to ask you right now is if we're going to do a component based which I'm on board for making it that aspect, because then it's like a we can checkbox certain stuff as of right now, if I go click on in the news. With an insights, obviously this is the page. It's very uh archaic, et cetera. But if I'm going to replace this page, Do I, how do I get access to who is who's got alpha dot school? So that I'm like able to kind of push into it slowly and then make it.
00:36:46 Speaker 3
So this is currently Dimitri. Uh is our marketing guy,
00:36:51 Yash
Okay, he's he's really bad. Okay,
00:36:54 Speaker 3
That's why we finally were like we got to get someone else to come in.
00:36:57 Yash
So are you on board with. Are you on board with me just spinning up a site, and we get to review it. And it looks good. Then it's like, let's let me just then push uh into this after the fact, et cetera. So like we build it all component, so we can build it all component wise. And then when it gets to the point where we're like, let's replace it. I can just like go to the whole replacement aspect. So for now, I'll just build a demo site I suppose, and we'll just go off of that. Um Let's do that.
00:37:22 Speaker 3
That'd be great if we can do it separate because, The part of Dimitri's job is he's extraordinarily possessive and defiant, and he will not incorporate uh feedback. Right. I don't know why, he just won't.
00:37:35 Yash
Yeah. Um, it's it's uh good to know uh. And in though I mean, this makes it for a slightly tricky situation for my next ask. So I will not. Uh, bother. My next ask was going to be, do we have analytics uh for where people are coming onto the site? Et cetera, because I assume, and I am assuming that he's the one who's got access to this all. Like we do.
00:37:57 Speaker 3
And if you want to tell me, do me a favor and tell me what what you want to know. Send me an email with like, and then I can just be like, hey Dimitri, I am curious like da da da da. Perfect.
00:38:06 Yash
That sounds great. I will i'll mull over it and give you a specific ask when when we get need to get to that. Um I think. Uh, this is. Great. Uh, like for now, I'll uh I'm gonna process over this stuff, and uh,
00:38:17 Speaker 1
I'll have a write up for you based off of the priority list,
00:38:21 Speaker 3
And we can. Great. And then just for your knowledge, Haven and Chris have been amazing. They are super on top of things. So that's why I kind of was like, hey you you connect with with Josh to be able to do that. They're great. Feel free to reach out to me as you needum and I'm available. Okay? Yeah,
00:38:38 Yash
That sounds uh great Thank you for uh, taking this time just to like uh. Break some of this down because I felt like a game of telephone prior. Bless ya. Uh, And I was worried that this game of telephone was going to make it to where I was going to have a bit of a confusion going forward. So this kind of helps avoid that. Yeah,
00:38:54 Speaker 3
Yeah, we don't want any confusion. Um, okay, thanks a lot guys.
00:38:56 Yash
You have a good one. Bless you again.
00:39:01 Speaker 1
Thank you Thank you.